	











Accounting Standards and Interaction with Corporate Tax
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGACS1

November 2023


Contents
1. Glossary	4
2. Introduction	9
2.1. Overview	9
2.2. Purpose of this guide	9
2.3. Who should read this guide?	9
2.4. How to use this guide	9
2.5. Legislative references	10
2.6. Status of this guide	11
3. Accepted Accounting and Reporting Standards	12
3.1. IFRS	12
3.2. IFRS for SMEs	12
3.3. Accounts not prepared under IFRS or IFRS for SMEs	12
3.4. Determination of amount and timing of Revenue and expenditure	13
3.5. Financial Statements of a Tax Group	13
3.6. Audit requirement for Financial Statements	13
4. Accounting Methods	15
4.1. Accrual Basis of Accounting	15
4.1.1. Revenue and expenditure recognition	15
4.2. Cash Basis of Accounting	16
4.2.1. Eligibility	16
4.2.2. Revenue and expenditure recognition	16
4.2.3. What are exceptional circumstances?	18
4.2.4. Calculation of the threshold for using Cash Basis of Accounting	18
4.2.5. Fluctuations in Revenue: switching to/from Accrual Basis of Accounting	18
4.2.6. Interaction with Small Business Relief	19
5. Realisation basis of accounting	20
5.1. Realised versus unrealised	20
5.1.1. Fair value accounting	20
5.1.2. Impairment	20
5.2. Realisation basis for Corporate Tax purposes	20
5.2.1. What constitutes realisation?	21

5.2.2. Election to use the realisation basis for Taxable Persons other than Banks or Insurance Providers	22
5.2.3. Election to use realisation basis for Banks and Insurance Providers	22
5.2.4. Timeline for making the election to use the realisation basis	22
5.2.5. Revocation of election to use realisation basis in exceptional circumstances. 22
5.2.6. Effect of applying realisation basis to Taxable Income	23
5.2.7. Definition of capital account	24
6. Other Adjustments to Accounting Income	30
6.1. Transactions with Related Parties	30
6.1.1. Consideration in excess of Market Value	30
6.1.2. Consideration lower than Market Value	32
6.2. Transfers within a Qualifying Group	33
6.3. Business Restructuring Relief	35
6.4. Gains and losses not recognised in the income statement	36
6.5. Cost Method of Accounting to replace Equity Method of Accounting	37
6.6. Other adjustments	37
6.6.1. No deduction for expenditure which does not qualify for relief under general tax deduction rules	37
6.6.2. Capital expenditure	37
7. Adjustments under the transitional rules	39
7.1. Background and purpose of the transitional rules	39
7.2. Gains on disposal of Qualifying Immovable Property	40
7.2.1. What is a Qualifying Immovable Property	41
7.2.2. Two methods to compute the excluded amount of the gain	41
7.3. Gains on disposal of Qualifying Intangible Assets	44
7.3.1. What is a Qualifying Intangible Asset	45
7.3.2. How to compute the excluded gain	45
7.4. Gains and losses on disposal of Qualifying Financial Assets and Qualifying Financial Liabilities	47
7.4.1. What is a Qualifying Financial Asset	47
7.4.2. What is a Qualifying Financial Liability	47
7.4.3. How to compute the excluded gain or loss	48
7.5. Impact of group ownership	49
7.5.1. Ownership of Transferred Assets and Liabilities	50
7.5.2. Calculation of the period of ownership of Non-Financial Transferred Assets	50

7.6. Subsequent movements in other assets or liabilities in the opening balance sheet
.........................................................................................................................   53
7.7. Arm's length principle: opening balance sheet	53
8. Updates and Amendments	54

1. Glossary

Accounting Income: The accounting net profit or loss for the relevant Tax Period as per the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Accounting Standards: The accounting standards specified in Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.

Accrual Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income when earned and expenditure when incurred.

AED: The United Arab Emirates dirham.

Auditor: An independent Person licensed and registered by the competent authorities of the UAE, that is appointed and remunerated by a private pension fund or a private social security fund to audit its Financial Statements.

Authority: Federal Tax Authority.

Bank: A Person licensed in the UAE as a bank or finance institution or an equivalent licensed activity that allows the taking of deposits and the granting of credits as defined in the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Restructuring Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for business restructuring transactions, available under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No.133 of 2023.

Cash Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income and expenditure when cash payments are received and paid.

Connected Person: Any Person affiliated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 36(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.


Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses.

Cost Method of Accounting: The cost method of accounting as defined in the International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"), or an equivalent method of accounting under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Dividend: Any payments or distributions that are declared or paid on or in respect of shares or other rights participating in the profits of the issuer of such shares or rights which do not constitute a return on capital or a return on debt claims, whether such payments or distributions are in cash, securities, or other properties, and whether payable out of profits or retained earnings or from any account or legal reserve or from capital reserve or revenue. This will include any payment or benefit which in substance or effect constitutes a distribution of profits made in connection with the acquisition or redemption or cancellation of shares or termination of other ownership interests or rights or any transaction or arrangement with a Related Party or Connected Person which does not comply with Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Equity Method of Accounting: The equity method of accounting as defined in the International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"), or an equivalent method of accounting under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Exempt Person: A Person exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Financial Asset: Financial asset as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Financial Liability: Financial liability as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.

Financial Year: The Gregorian calendar year, or the twelve-month period for which the Taxable Person prepares Financial Statements.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.



IFRS for SMEs: International Financial Reporting Standards for small and medium- sized enterprises.

Immovable Property: Means any of the following:
a. Any area of land over which rights or interests or services can be created.
b. Any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed.
c. Any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.

Insurance Provider: A Person licensed in the UAE as an insurance provider that accepts risks by entering into or carrying out contracts of insurance, in both the life and non-life sectors, including contracts of reinsurance and captive insurance, as defined in the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Intangible Asset: An intangible asset as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.

Membership or Partnership Capital: The capital paid to a juridical person where the paid capital is divided into membership or partnership interests by a Person in order to be a member or partner and have the rights of membership or partnership in that juridical person.

Parent Company: A Resident Person that can make an application to the FTA to form a Tax Group with one or more Subsidiaries in accordance with Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participation Exemption: An exemption from Corporate Tax for income from a Participating Interest, available under Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No.116 of 2023.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.

Qualifying Financial Asset: Financial Asset that meets the conditions under Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


Qualifying Financial Liability: Financial Liability that meets the conditions under Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.

Qualifying Group: Two or more Taxable Persons that meet the conditions of Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Immovable Property: Immovable Property that meets the conditions under Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.

Qualifying Intangible Asset: Intangible Asset that meets the conditions under Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.

Qualifying Public Benefit Entity: Any entity that meets the conditions set out in Article 9 of the Corporate Tax Law and that is listed in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.

Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

Subsidiary: A Resident Person in which the share capital or Membership or Partnership Capital, as applicable, is held by a Parent Company, in accordance with Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Group: Two or more Taxable Persons treated as a single Taxable Person according to the conditions of Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.



Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on the interaction of Accounting Standards with Corporate Tax. It provides readers with an overview of:

* Preparation of Financial Statements;
* The Cash Basis of Accounting;
* The realisation basis of accounting;
* Other adjustments under Article 20(2)(i) of the Corporate Tax Law; and
* Adjustments under the transitional rules.

For more information related to Accounting Standards that govern how particular types of transactions and events should be reported in Financial Statements, please refer to the official documentation released by the relevant standard setter/Accounting Standards board. For further information on IFRS, visit https://www.ifrs.org.

2.3. Who should read this guide?

This guide should be read by any Person that is responsible for preparing the Financial Statements of Taxable Persons for Corporate Tax purposes. It is intended to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.


It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how accounting concepts interact with key elements of the Corporate Tax. The examples in the guide:

- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:

* Federal Law No. 12 of 2014 on the Regulation of the Auditing Profession is referred to as "Federal Law No. 12 of 2014";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as "Tax Procedures Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Ministerial Resolution No. 403 of 2015 Concerning the International Standards of the Auditing Profession is referred to as "Ministerial Resolution No. 403 of 2015";
* Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief for the Purposes of the Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023 on the Determination of Categories of Taxable Persons Required to Prepare and Maintain Audited Financial Statements for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No.115 of 2023 on Private Pension Funds and Private Social Security Funds for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the


Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No.115 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023 on the Adjustments Under the Transitional Rules for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023 on Tax Group for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023"; and
* Ministerial Decision No.134 of 2023 on the General Rules for Determining Taxable Income for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023".

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the interaction of Accounting Standards with the Corporate Tax regime in the UAE. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. Accepted Accounting and Reporting Standards

The Corporate Tax Law provides that the Taxable Income of each Taxable Person shall be determined separately, on the basis of properly prepared, standalone (unconsolidated) Financial Statements for financial reporting purposes in accordance with the Accounting Standards accepted in the UAE for Corporate Tax purposes.1

Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 specifies that the only Accounting Standards accepted in the UAE for Corporate Tax purposes are the International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") and the International Financial Reporting Standard for small and medium-sized entities ("IFRS for SMEs").

3.1. IFRS

Taxable Persons shall use IFRS as the Accounting Standards accepted in the UAE for Corporate Tax purposes.2

3.2. IFRS for SMEs

For Corporate Tax purposes, Taxable Persons may use IFRS for SMEs if they derive Revenue not exceeding AED 50 million in a Tax Period.3

IFRS for SMEs should not be used as the default Accounting Standard. The Taxable Person may use IFRS for SMEs only if they satisfy the Revenue requirement. Where the requirement is not satisfied, IFRS shall be used.

3.3. Accounts not prepared under IFRS or IFRS for SMEs

As mentioned above, Taxable Persons are required under the Corporate Tax Law to use IFRS or IFRS for SMEs (as applicable) to calculate Taxable Income. Failure to do so will be viewed as a violation of the Corporate Tax Law and may result in administrative penalties. 4 Nonetheless, for purposes other than Corporate Tax, Taxable Persons may use different accounting standards as long as all relevant calculations and reporting are performed and provided (where required) using IFRS or IFRS for SMEs for Corporate Tax purposes.





1 Article 20(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
2 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
3 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
4 Article 24(1)(a) of Tax Procedures Law.


An Exempt Person under the Corporate Tax Law may use other accounting standards. However, if an Exempt Person, specifically a Government Entity, a Government Controlled Entity, an Extractive Business or a Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, has Business or Business Activities treated as a separate taxable Business (or Businesses) as per the Corporate Tax Law, the Exempt Person is required to use IFRS or IFRS for SMEs to prepare the Financial Statements for that taxable activity.5 This would also be the case if it were subsequently determined that the conditions for exemption had not been met.

3.4. Determination of amount and timing of Revenue and expenditure

The Accounting Standards determine the amount of Revenue and expenditure, and the period in which they are recognised, for the purpose of calculating Taxable Income. This is then subject to any specific adjustments required to calculate Taxable Income as prescribed by the Corporate Tax Law. For instance, to disallow non-deductible expenditure.6

3.5. Financial Statements of a Tax Group

A Tax Group is required to prepare consolidated Financial Statements (using IFRS or IFRS for SME's) for the purpose of determining the Taxable Income of a Tax Group.7 This means preparation of stand-alone Financial Statements on the basis of aggregation of the stand-alone Financial Statements of the Parent Company and each Subsidiary that is a member of the Tax Group, as if the Tax Group were a single Taxable Person. In this respect, the financial results, assets and liabilities of all members of the Tax Group must be consolidated, eliminating any transactions between the Parent Company and each Subsidiary.8

Transactions between certain members of the Tax Group should be determined consistent with the arm's length principle.9

3.6. Audit requirement for Financial Statements

Taxable Persons deriving Revenue exceeding AED 50 million during the relevant Tax Period and all Qualifying Free Zone Persons (irrespective of the level of Revenue) are required to prepare and maintain audited Financial Statements for the purposes of the

5 Articles 5(2), 6(3), 7(4)(a) and 8(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
6 Article 20(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
7 Article 42(1) and Article 42(11) of the Corporate Tax Law.
8 Article 42(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 3 of the Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
9 Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 8(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


Corporate Tax Law.10 The threshold of AED 50 million is not pro-rated if a Tax Period is longer or shorter than 12 months. The audit must be performed by a UAE-registered auditor, pursuant to Federal Law No. 12 of 2014 on the Regulation of the Auditing Profession and its amendments, read together with Ministerial Resolution No. 403 of 2015 Concerning the International Standards of the Auditing Profession, or any other applicable legislation.

If a Tax Group derives Revenue exceeding AED 50 million on a consolidated basis during the relevant Tax Period, the consolidated Financial Statements of the Tax Group (as the Taxable Person) will be required to be audited. However, the Corporate Tax Law does not require separate Financial Statements of the Parent Company and Subsidiary members to be audited, even when a member's Revenue exceeds AED 50 million.11

In addition, private pension or social security funds that have made an application to and received an approval from the FTA to be exempt from Corporate Tax must have an Auditor.12 The Auditor must, on an annual basis, confirm the compliance of the fund with the provisions of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.13






























10 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023.
11 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023.
12 Article 2(4) and Article 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
13 Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.


4. Accounting Methods

4.1. Accrual Basis of Accounting

4.1.1. Revenue and expenditure recognition

Under the Accrual Basis of Accounting, Revenue and expenditure are recognised when they are earned or incurred, not necessarily when payments are received or made, or invoices received or sent.

Thus, under the Accrual Basis of Accounting, Revenues and expenses are included in Taxable Income in the Tax Period in which they are earned or incurred. Therefore, when a provider delivers a service to a customer (assuming both use the Accrual Basis of Accounting), and the customer pays the provider later (for example, 2 months after the service is provided), Revenue is earned by the provider and is included in its Taxable Income and the expenditure is incurred by the customer and is included in its Taxable Income when the service is performed, i.e. before any payment is made or received, or invoices received or sent.






4.2. Cash Basis of Accounting

4.2.1. Eligibility

For the purposes of Corporate Tax, a Person may prepare Financial Statements using the Cash Basis of Accounting if:14

* Their Revenue does not exceed AED 3 million within the relevant Tax Period; or
* In exceptional circumstances and pursuant to an application submitted by the Person to the FTA.

If their Revenue does not exceed AED 3 million, the Person can apply the Cash Basis of Accounting without needing to submit an application to the FTA.

Revenue is a defined term in the Corporate Tax Law and means the gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period. Revenue should be determined based on the arm's length principle. When determining the Revenue, the income from all Business Activities undertaken by a particular juridical person must be taken into account, and certain defined Business Activities in the case of a natural person. The Cash Basis of Accounting should be used to determine whether the AED 3 million threshold is exceeded.

Once a Taxable Person's Revenue exceeds AED 3 million in the Tax Period, they must prepare Financial Statements on an accrual basis, except under exceptional circumstances and following the FTA's approval.

4.2.2. Revenue and expenditure recognition

Under the Cash Basis of Accounting, Revenue and expenditure are reported, for Corporate Tax purposes, in the Tax Period in which the amounts are received or paid. The Cash Basis of Accounting applies equally to both Revenue and expenditure recognition. There is no balance sheet under the Cash Basis of Accounting.

A credit sale, for example, is not reported as Revenue by the seller at the time of issuing the invoice, delivering the products or rendering the service. This is because the cash is not received at any of these moments. Under the Cash Basis of Accounting the seller records the Revenue only when they receive the payment.


14 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.

















Transaction
2024 Tax Period
2025 Tax Period
1
10,000
-
2
9,000
6,000


When it comes to expenditure, a credit purchase, for example, is not recognised as an expense by the buyer at the time of receiving the invoice or the products/services. This is because the cash at that moment has not been paid. When the buyer makes the payment, they would report the amount paid as expenditure.


The Cash Basis of Accounting does not alter the nature of payments. For example, payment for the purchase of an asset, receipt of a loan or repayment of loan principal are not Revenue or expenditure (though the interest element of any payment would be taxable or deductible subject to normal rules). Nonetheless, under the Cash Basis of Accounting, a deduction may be taken in respect of assets purchased in place of the tax relief which would ordinarily be given for depreciation on the Accrual Basis of Accounting (no depreciation is recorded under the Cash Basis of Accounting).

Revenue and expenditure are recognised under the Cash Basis of Accounting at the date of receipt or payment. For example, where a customer pays cash for the purchase


of a good, the seller should recognise the Revenue on the day of the transaction, and the buyer should recognise the expenditure on the same day, assuming both apply the cash basis.

However, payments can be made other than in cash, for example, credit or debit card payment, cheque payment and in-kind payment. Where the payment is made through one of these methods, the actual cash flow should be considered.

For example, a credit card payment by a buyer will not be considered a cash payment until they settle their credit card bill, while for the seller the receipt of cash, i.e. when their bank account is credited, can be earlier.

A debit card payment would be considered as an immediate payment for the buyer because the cash is directly debited from their bank account.

A cheque payment would be considered a cash payment when the cheque is cashed by the seller and when the cash is blocked or debited from the buyer's bank account.

4.2.3. What are exceptional circumstances?

An example of an exceptional circumstance and a reason to be permitted to use the Cash Basis of Accounting could be where the Taxable Person expects to exceed the AED 3 million threshold for only one Tax Period.15 A Taxable Person should maintain evidence that it had a basis to expect this.

4.2.4. Calculation of the threshold for using Cash Basis of Accounting

In determining whether the Taxable Person's Revenue exceeds the AED 3 million threshold,16 the Revenue is that of the Tax Period in question. Thus, for any given Tax Period, it will only be known with certainty whether the threshold has been exceeded after the end of the Tax Period.

The Cash Basis of Accounting should be used to determine whether the AED 3 million threshold is exceeded (see Section 4.2.1).

4.2.5. Fluctuations	in	Revenue:	switching	to/from	Accrual	Basis	of Accounting

During its life cycle, a Taxable Person may face Revenue fluctuations. If Revenue derived during a Tax Period exceeds AED 3 million by applying the Cash Basis of Accounting, the Taxable Person should switch to the Accrual Basis of Accounting

15 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
16 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.


since they no longer meet the conditions prescribed under Article 20(5) of the Corporate Tax Law. However, there is potential for this to qualify as an "exceptional circumstance" for which an application can be made and the FTA may approve or not the continued use of the Cash Basis of Accounting (see Section 4.2.3).

4.2.6. Interaction with Small Business Relief

Businesses that elect for Small Business Relief are able to prepare financial statements based on the Cash Basis of Accounting, if their revenue does not exceed AED 3 million.17

One of the conditions of Small Business Relief is that Revenue does not exceed AED 3 million,18 where Revenue is the gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period calculated according to applicable accounting standards.

According to Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023, the applicable accounting standard is International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") or IFRS for SME's. However, a Person may prepare Financial Statements using the Cash Basis of Accounting, where the Person derives Revenue that does not exceed AED 3 million, as explained in Section 4.2.1.

Accordingly, a Person may apply either IFRS (or IFRS for SMEs) or the Cash Basis of Accounting in order to calculate their Revenue to determine if they are eligible for Small Business Relief. The Cash Basis of Accounting is always used to determine eligibility to prepare Financial Statements on the Cash Basis of Accounting for Corporate Tax purposes. Therefore, if IFRS or IFRS for SMEs is used to determine Revenue for the purpose of Small Business Relief, the cash basis still has to be used with regard to eligibility for the Cash Basis of Accounting.


















17 Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
18 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No.73 of 2023.


5. Realisation basis of accounting

5.1. Realised versus unrealised

In broad terms, based on the general principles of the Accounting Standards:

* Realised gains are gains that have been converted into consideration received (for example, cash) by the completion of a transaction. The same is equally applicable for losses.
* Unrealised gains are gains that have not been converted into consideration and can arise in respect of, for example, items subject to fair value accounting, such as financial instruments which are liquid and short-term. The same is equally applicable for losses.

5.1.1. Fair value accounting

Fair value accounting uses current market values as the basis for recognising the value of certain assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements. The objective is to estimate the price at which a transaction to sell an asset or to transfer a liability would take place between market participants under the market conditions applicable on the measurement date.19

5.1.2. Impairment

Entities recognise and record the value of their assets in their accounts. The value of an asset is determined by the market and can change as time passes. The core principle is that an asset must not be carried in the Financial Statements of the entity at a value higher than the highest amount that can be recovered through its use or sale. If the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, the asset is described as "impaired" and the entity must reduce the carrying amount to its recoverable amount and recognise an impairment loss.20

5.2. Realisation basis for Corporate Tax purposes

Where the Accrual Basis of Accounting is used by a Taxable Person in preparing their Financial Statements, unrealised gains or losses arising from a change in the value of an asset or liability are recorded in the Financial Statements even when no transaction to realise such gains or losses has yet taken place. It is, therefore, possible that profits (or losses) could arise where there has been no actual disposal or settlement (i.e. realisation) of the relevant asset or liability and, therefore, no consideration could be

19 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
20 IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.


used to pay any Corporate Tax liability that may arise as a result. An example of this would be a change in the exchange rate affecting the value of a foreign currency contract to be settled in a future Tax Period. Another example would be the creation or release of a provision for a doubtful debt.

To prevent a Corporate Tax liability arising where there is no consideration to fund the resulting Corporate Tax payable, Taxable Persons who prepare their Financial Statements on an Accrual Basis of Accounting may elect to take into account gains and losses on a realisation basis.21 This means that, for the purposes of calculating their Taxable Income for a Tax Period, instead of gains and losses in respect of assets and liabilities being determined on the basis of revaluation or other change in book value, gains or losses are taken into account only when an asset is disposed of or a liability is settled, or a different realisation event occurs.

5.2.1. What constitutes realisation?

The realisation of an asset or a liability includes, but is not limited to, the following:22

* The sale, disposal, transfer (other than non-taxable transfers described below), settlement and complete worthlessness of an asset as per the Accounting Standards used by the Taxable Person.
* The settlement, assignment, transfer (other than non-taxable transfers described below), and forgiveness of a liability as per the Accounting Standards used by the Taxable Person.

On the other hand, certain transfers are not considered a realisation of assets or liabilities. These include:23

* A non-taxable transfer of assets or liabilities between members of a Qualifying Group (that is not a Tax Group) as defined under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law.
* A transfer of assets or liabilities which qualifies for Business Restructuring Relief under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.









21 Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
22 Article 9(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
23 Article 9(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


5.2.2. Election to use the realisation basis for Taxable Persons other than Banks or Insurance Providers

A Taxable Person, other than a Bank or Insurance Provider, that prepares Financial Statements on an Accrual Basis of Accounting, may elect to take into account gains and losses on a realisation basis in relation to either:24

* All assets and liabilities that are subject to fair value or impairment accounting under the applicable Accounting Standards; or
* All assets and liabilities held on the capital account at the end of a Tax Period, whilst taking into account any unrealised gain or loss that arises in connection with assets and liabilities held on the revenue account at the end of that period.

5.2.3. Election to use realisation basis for Banks and Insurance Providers

Banks and Insurance Providers that are Taxable Persons and that prepare Financial Statements on an Accrual Basis of Accounting may elect to recognise gains and losses on a realisation basis only in relation to all assets and liabilities held on the capital account at the end of a Tax Period. 25 Accordingly, Banks and Insurance Providers are subject to Corporate Tax when using the Accrual Basis of Accounting in respect of any unrealised gain or loss that arises in connection with assets and liabilities held on the revenue account at the end of the Tax Period.

5.2.4. Timeline for making the election to use the realisation basis

The election for the realisation basis must be made by the Taxable Person during the first Tax Period which practically will be at the time of submitting the first Tax Return.26

5.2.5. Revocation	of	election	to	use realisation	basis	in exceptional circumstances

The election to use the realisation basis is irrevocable. However, it may be revoked under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to approval by the FTA.27 Exceptional circumstances would be assessed by the FTA on a case-by-case basis.


5.2.6. Effect of applying realisation basis to Taxable Income

Taking into account gains and losses on a realisation basis means that unrealised gains and losses recorded in the Taxable Person's Financial Statements would be disregarded for Corporate Tax purposes. This means:

* For assets and liabilities subject to fair value or impairment accounting, all unrealised gains would not be taxable, and all unrealised losses would not be deductible, until both (gains and losses) are realised.
* For assets and liabilities held on capital account, unrealised gains and losses, including unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses, would not be taxable or deductible, respectively, until they are realised.28
* For assets and liabilities held on revenue account, unrealised gains and losses arising would continue to be taken into account in determining Taxable Income.

A Taxable Person that has elected to use the realisation basis must make certain additional adjustments in respect of the relevant assets and liabilities when calculating the Taxable Income.29 These adjustments include:30

* In cases other than upon realisation, any depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of an asset (other than a Financial Asset) should be excluded from the Accounting Income when calculating the Taxable Income to the extent that the adjustment amount relates to a change in net book value exceeding the original cost of that asset.
* In cases other than upon realisation, any change in the value of a liability or a Financial Asset, including amortisation, should be excluded from the Accounting Income when calculating the Taxable Income.
* Upon the realisation of an asset or a liability, any amounts that had not been previously recognised for Corporate Tax purposes (for example, unrealised gains or losses) must be included in the Taxable Income. However, any such amount that arose prior to the most recent acquisition where Business Restructuring Relief or the relief for transfers within a Qualifying Group did not apply should not be included in the Taxable Income.









28 Article 20(4)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
29 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
30 Articles 2(3) and 2(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.



5.2.7. Definition of capital account

"Assets held on capital account" refers to assets that:31

* the Person does not trade;
* are eligible for depreciation; or
* are treated under applicable Accounting Standards as property, plant and equipment, investment property, intangible assets, or other non-current assets.

"Liabilities held on capital account" refers to liabilities incurred which do not give rise to deductible expenditure for Corporate Tax purposes,32 or liabilities treated under applicable Accounting Standards as non-current liabilities.33 For example:

* Accrued liabilities or provisions relating to donations, grants or gifts to an entity that is not a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity.
* Long-term debt (for example, long-term notes payable, bonds payable).

"Assets and liabilities held on revenue account" refers to assets and liabilities other than those held on capital account.34



























31 Article 20(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 32 Article 28 to 33 of the Corporate Tax Law. 33 Article 20(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 34 Article 20(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 5: Adjustment of Accounting Income other than upon realisation

This example considers the adjustments required other than upon realisation in the case of an asset where the net book value exceeds the original cost. The asset is not a Financial Asset.

Company B acquires a building from a third party for AED 500,000 around the end of Tax Period 1 and records its net book value as AED 500,000. Company B has elected to take into account gains and losses on a realisation basis in relation to all assets and liabilities held on capital account.

At the beginning of Tax Period 2, Company B re-values the building to AED 600,000. The change in value of AED 100,000 reflected in its Accounting Income represents an unrealised gain. Since Company B has elected for the realisation basis, it should exclude the unrealised gain of AED 100,000 from its Taxable Income in Tax Period 2.

Company B depreciates the building using a straight-line method over 10 years, starting from Tax Period 2. The resulting accounting depreciation is AED 60,000.

Since Company B has elected for the realisation basis, when calculating its Taxable Income in Tax Period 2, the entire AED 60,000 depreciation shall be added back, as it relates to a change in the net book value exceeding the original cost (i.e. from AED 600,000 to AED 540,000).

Company B will continue to adjust for such depreciation until it brings the asset's net book value to an amount that is equal or less than AED 500,000 (the original cost of the asset). Therefore, in Tax Period 3, it will need to add back AED 40,000 depreciation, which is the remaining depreciation relating to the net book value exceeding the original cost (i.e. from AED 540,000 to AED 500,000). This results in AED 20,000 depreciation to be allowed in the determination of its Taxable Income in Tax Period 3.

In Tax Period 4 Company B shall not make any depreciation adjustment (i.e. the full amount of depreciation will be allowed in the determination of its Taxable Income), since the asset's net book value does not exceed the original cost. This also applies to the subsequent Tax Periods.





Description
Tax Period 1
Tax Period 2
Tax Period 3
Tax Period 4
Building carrying	value (opening
balance)
500,000
500,000
540,000
480,000
Appreciation
-
100,000
-
-
Accounting
depreciation
-
(60,000)
(60,000)
(60,000)
Building net book value (closing
balance)
500,000
540,000
480,000
420,000
Pre- depreciation Accounting
Income
200,000
200,000
200,000
200,000
Accounting
Income
200,000
140,000
140,000
140,000
Taxable Income adjustment	- disregard
unrealised gain
-
(100,000)
-
-
Taxable Income adjustment	- add	back
depreciation
-
60,000
40,000
-
Taxable
Income
200,000
100,000
180,000
140,000





Company B has elected to take into account gains and losses on a realisation basis in relation to all assets and liabilities held on capital account.

Company B re-values the building to AED 400,000 in Tax Period 2. The change in value of AED 100,000 reflected in its Accounting Income represents an unrealised loss.

Since Company B has elected for the realisation basis, it should exclude the unrealised loss of AED 100,000 in the determination of its Taxable Income in Tax Period 2.

Company B depreciates the building using a straight-line method over 10 years, starting from Tax Period 2. The resulting accounting depreciation is AED 40,000.

Contrary to Example 5 above, as the net book value is below original cost, no adjustment is required in relation to the depreciation of AED 40,000 in Tax Periods 2, 3 and 4, respectively, because this will not result in tax deduction above the original cost.






as it relates to a change in the net book value exceeding the original cost (i.e. from AED 600,000 to AED 540,000).

At the beginning of Tax Period 3, Company B decides to sell the building for its net book value of AED 540,000.

For the purposes of determining its Taxable Income, Company B will include the amount of AED 100,000 that has not been recognised previously for Corporate Tax purposes and claim a deduction for the depreciation adjustment of AED 60,000 previously made in Tax Period 2.

Description
Tax Period 1
Tax Period 2
Tax Period 3
Building carrying value
(opening balance)

500,000

500,000

540,000
Appreciation
-
100,000
-
Accounting depreciation
-
(60,000)
-
Building net book value
(closing balance)

500,000

540,000

-
Pre-Depreciation
Accounting Income
200,000
200,000
200,000
Accounting Income
200,000
140,000
200,000
Taxable	Income
adjustment	-deduct unrealised gain

-

(100,000)

-
Taxable	Income adjustment - add back
depreciation

-

60,000

-
Taxable	Income
adjustment	-	include unrealised gain

-

-

100,000
Taxable		Income adjustment	-		deduct
depreciation



(60,000)
Taxable Income
200,000
100,000
240,000





































35 Article 2(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


6. Other Adjustments to Accounting Income

The starting point for calculating Taxable Income is the Accounting Income. This is then adjusted in accordance with Article 20(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

This guide only covers adjustments to the extent they are related to accounting matters. Please refer to Article 20(2) of the Corporate Tax Law for additional information about determining Taxable Income.

6.1. Transactions with Related Parties

Transactions and arrangements between Related Parties must meet the arm's length principle.36 In case of a transfer of an asset or a liability between Related Parties, if the consideration paid exceeds or is lower than the Market Value, adjustments shall be made by the transferor and the transferee, to achieve the arm's length result.37

Where the transferee overpays for an asset or a liability, generally the transferor would not recognise a gain for Corporate Tax purposes for the amount exceeding the Market Value.38 However, in its Financial Statements, the transferee will record a net book value equal to the purchase price, which exceeds the Market Value. Given that the amount in excess of Market Value has not been taken into account for Corporate Tax, the transferee is not allowed to claim depreciation, amortisation, or other changes in value which relate to the untaxed gain.

Similarly, where the transferee underpays for an asset or a liability, the transferor must recognise the difference between the Market Value and the sale price in calculating its Taxable Income. In its Financial Statements, the transferee will record a net book value equal to the purchase price, which is lower than the Market Value. For Corporate Tax purposes, the transferee should not recognise the gain already taxed in the hands of the transferor. This eliminates any possible double taxation.

The adjustments to be made by the transferee in the event of a non-arm's length transfer between Related Parties are discussed further below.

6.1.1. Consideration in excess of Market Value

Where the amount of consideration paid by the transferee exceeds the Market Value, the transferee shall apply an adjustment to:39


36 Article 34(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
37 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
38 Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.
39 Article 3(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


a. In cases other than upon realisation (for example whilst the asset is held and used by the transferee): exclude any depreciation, amortisation or other change in value of the asset or liability to the extent that it relates to a change in value between the net book value of that asset or liability as recognised by the transferee upon the transfer and the Market Value.

Where the above circumstances apply, the transferee may elect to recognise the excess amount derived from the difference between the net book value and the Market Value as an adjustment in calculating the Taxable Income and the above adjustment shall no longer be required in respect of that asset or liability.40

b. Upon the realisation of an asset or a liability by the transferee: include any amount by which the net book value used by the transferee when calculating the gain or loss, exceeds the Market Value identified under paragraph (a) above.

If the net book value of the asset or liability becomes equal to or less than the Market Value, or an election is made to recognise the excess amount derived from the difference between the net book value and the Market Value in Taxable Income, the adjustments under paragraphs (a) and (b) above will no longer be required.

Please note that the adjustment in this section always applies, regardless of whether the realisation basis election, as per Section 5.2, has been made or not.


40 Articles 3(2) and 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
41 Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.
42 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.




6.1.2. Consideration lower than Market Value

Where the amount of consideration paid by the transferee is lower than the Market Value, and where the transferor has included the difference between the Market Value and the consideration in its Taxable Income, the following adjustments apply:45

a. In cases other than upon realisation: exclude any change in value of the asset or liability, to the extent that it relates to a change in the value between the Market Value of that asset or liability and its net book value as recognised by the transferee upon transfer.
b. Upon the realisation of an asset or a liability by the transferee: reduce the amount of gain by the difference in the Market Value and the net book value at the time of transfer, other than any net amount that has not been included in the Taxable Income under paragraph (a) above.

Where the net book value of the asset or liability becomes equal or higher than the Market Value, the adjustments under paragraphs (a) and (b) above will no longer apply to that asset or liability.

43 Article 3(1)(a)(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
44 Article 3(1)(a)(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


Example 10: Transactions with Related Parties - consideration lower than Market Value

This is similar to the previous example, but addresses the situation where consideration paid is lower than Market Value. Company A and Company B are Related Parties. Company B (transferee) acquires a yacht from Company A (transferor) for AED 7 million and the Market Value of the yacht is AED 10 million.

Company A must make an adjustment in the calculation of its Taxable Income to include AED 3 million (being the difference between the Market Value and the consideration paid by Company B).

At the time of the transfer, Company B recognises the net book value of the yacht as AED 7 million (being the consideration paid) in its Financial Statements.

Company B subsequently re-values the yacht to the Market Value of AED 10 million, recognising an unrealised gain of AED 3 million for accounting purposes. When calculating its Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period, Company B (whether or not it has made an election to use realisation basis) should exclude the unrealised gain of AED 3 million since such amount has already been recognised by Company A and taxed.46

If in the future Company B sells the yacht for AED 11 million and makes a gain of AED 1 million then the taxable gain for Company B will, therefore, be AED 1 million.47


6.2. Transfers within a Qualifying Group

Where there has been a transfer of assets or liabilities between Taxable Persons that are members of the same Qualifying Group that is not a Tax Group, and where the no gain or loss relief under Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law applies, the following adjustments will apply in the calculation of the Taxable Income of the transferee:48

a. In cases other than upon realisation: to exclude any depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of an asset or a liability, to the extent that it relates to a gain or loss that arose for the transferor and was not taxed or deducted respectively by the transferor due to the application of the provisions of Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. This means that if, for example, a gain for the transferor was not taken into account for Corporate Tax purposes under Article

46 Article 3(1)(b)(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
47 Article 3(1)(b)(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, the transferee cannot claim depreciation on that gain either.

b. Upon the realisation of an asset or a liability: to include any amount that has not been recognised for Corporate Tax purposes under paragraph (a) above and Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. This will not apply to an amount that arose prior to the most recent acquisition where Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law did not apply.

Example 11: Adjustments in relation to transfers within a Qualifying Group
Company A and Company B are members of a Qualifying Group. Company A acquires a building for AED 10 million. Company A (transferor) subsequently transfers the building to Company B (transferee) for AED 12 million at the end of Tax Period 1.

Company A has made an election to apply the provisions of Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and, therefore, the gain of AED 2 million will not be recognised for Corporate Tax purposes in the hands of Company A.

Upon transfer, Company B records the building at a net book value of AED 12 million. Company B depreciates the asset using a straight-line method over 10 years. The resulting depreciation in Tax Period 2 is AED 1.2 million. The net book value as at the end of Tax Period 2 is AED 10.8 million.

When calculating its Taxable Income in Tax Period 2, Company B will need to add back the AED 1.2 million depreciation. In this regard, Company B will continue to adjust for depreciation by adding it back to Taxable Income until the building's net book value is equal to or less than AED 10 million (the acquisition cost of the building by Company A).49

The depreciation in Tax Period 3 is AED 1.2 million. The net book value as at the end of the Tax Period 3 is AED 9.6 million.

When calculating its Taxable Income in Tax Period 3, Company B will need to add back AED 800,000 of the depreciation. This amount brings the building's net book value to AED 10 million.50 Thus in Tax Period 3, Company B will be entitled to claim depreciation of AED 400,000.






49 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
50 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.



If Company B retains the building in Tax Period 4, it would be entitled to claim the full depreciation amount of AED 1.2 million for the purposes of determining its Taxable Income and would thus not make any adjustment in relation to depreciation in Tax Period 4.

If, in Tax Period 4, Company B sells the building to a third party. For the purposes of calculating its Taxable Income, Company B will include the gain of AED 2 million that arose for Company A during the transfer to Company B that has not been recognised previously for Corporate Tax purposes and claim a deduction for the depreciation adjustment of AED 1.2 million previously made in Tax Period 2 and AED 800,000 made in Tax Period 3.51

Supposing the Accounting Income for Companies A and B were as follows:






The below table illustrates the adjustments to be made and the Taxable Income of Companies A and B:


Company A
Company B


Tax Period
Tax Period 1
Tax Period 2
Tax Period 3
Tax Period 4


Accounting
Income
2,000,000
3,000,000
3,000,000
5,400,000


Adjustments
(2,000,000)
1,200,000
800,000
2,000,000
(1,200,000)
(800,000)


Taxable
Income
-
4,200,000
3,800,000
5,400,000


6.3. Business Restructuring Relief

Where Business Restructuring Relief under Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law applies, the following adjustments shall apply in the calculation of the Taxable Income of the transferee:
a. In cases other than upon realisation: to exclude any depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of an asset or a liability, to the extent that it relates to a

51 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


gain or loss that arose to the transferor that has not been recognised by virtue of the Business Restructuring Relief.
b. Upon realisation of an asset or liability: to include any amount that has not been recognised under paragraph (a) above and Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. This will not apply to an amount that arose prior to the most recent acquisition where the Business Restructuring Relief did not apply.52

The adjustments for Business Restructuring Relief operate in the same way as adjustments for transfers within a Qualifying Group.

6.4. Gains and losses not recognised in the income statement

When calculating Taxable Income, Taxable Persons are required to adjust their Accounting Income to include any realised or unrealised gains and losses that are reported in the Financial Statements insofar as they would not be subsequently recognised in the statement of income.53

This may happen in different scenarios. For instance, any gain or loss recorded in the statement of other comprehensive income that will not be subsequently included or reclassified to the statement of income in future periods.



52 Article 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
53 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


6.5. Cost Method of Accounting to replace Equity Method of Accounting

Under IFRS, the Equity Method of Accounting allows parent companies (not in the context of a Tax Group) to apply special rules to account for investments in associates and joint ventures. The parent company records its proportionate share of the equity accounted investment's financial results in the income statement or statement of other comprehensive income and the profit distributions received reduce the carrying value of the investment.

To avoid double taxation of the equity accounted investment's income (i.e. at the investment and parent level), the parent company should replace the effect of Equity Method of Accounting, if applied, with the effect of Cost Method of Accounting for Corporate Tax purposes. This means that in its Taxable Income calculation, the Parent Company should not include the share of income or loss of the equity accounted investment. Instead, only Dividends and other profit distributions (which may qualify for exemption under Article 22 of the Corporate Tax Law) should be recognised for Corporate Tax purposes.

6.6. Other adjustments

6.6.1. No deduction for expenditure which does not qualify for relief under general tax deduction rules

Any expenditure that does not meet the conditions described under Articles 28 to 33 (Chapter Nine on Deductions) of the Corporate Tax Law is not deductible regardless of its treatment in the Financial Statements.54

6.6.2. Capital expenditure

For the purposes of Corporate Tax, the definition of expenditure that is capital in nature is that which is treated as such under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.55 Examples would be costs incurred to acquire and improve an asset, such as acquiring new machinery, improving infrastructure or building facilities, import duties, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management, costs of site preparation, initial delivery and handling costs.

Whilst a tax deduction is not available for expenditure which is capital in nature,56 the associated depreciation, amortisation or similar changes are deductible for Corporate

54 Article 7(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
55 Article 7(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
56 Article 28(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Tax purposes. However, if the capitalised expenditure would not have been deductible had it been expenditure that is not capital in nature, the associated depreciation, amortisation or similar changes would not qualify for a tax deduction.57 For instance, if a Taxable Person incurred interest expenditure that would not otherwise be deductible, for example on a loan obtained from a Related Party to acquire shares in another Related Party,58 and that interest expenditure was then capitalised to gain a Corporate Tax advantage, any write-off of the capitalised interest would not qualify for a deduction for Corporate Tax purposes.

Expenditure that is capital in nature that has not been deducted for the purpose of calculating Taxable Income (except where it would not have been allowable if it was not treated as capital in nature) is deductible for Corporate Tax purposes in the calculation of gains or losses upon the realisation of the asset or liability.59















57 Article 7(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
58 Article 31(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
59 Article 7(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


7. Adjustments under the transitional rules

7.1. Background and purpose of the transitional rules

For Corporate Tax purposes, a Taxable Person's opening balance sheet shall be the closing balance sheet prepared for the period immediately before their first Tax Period.60 This establishes the starting point for the application of Corporate Tax.

For instance, for assets or liabilities recorded on a historical cost basis, the opening balance sheet will be the net book value as of the last day of the Financial Year immediately preceding the first Tax Period, and not the Market Value at that date or the full original acquisition cost (if it is already partially depreciated or amortised).

During or after their first Tax Period, Taxable Persons that apply the historical Cost Method of Accounting might find themselves, upon disposal of assets or liabilities, realising gains which are partially associated with periods preceding their first Tax Period.

However, if assets or liabilities are recorded on a fair market value basis, the opening balance sheet in their first Tax Period will be the Market Value of the assets or liabilities, and the gain on disposal will not include gains related to periods preceding the first Tax Period.

Thus, where a Taxable Person applies the historical cost basis, the transitional rules aim to limit the taxable gain to the gain which arises after the start of the first Tax Period, in relation to certain categories of assets as specified in Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.



60 Article 61(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.




Under the transitional rules, Taxable Persons with Financial Assets or Financial Liabilities, Immovable Property and Intangible Assets owned before the first Tax Period and recorded on historical cost basis may elect to adjust their Taxable Income to exclude gains or losses related to the period(s) preceding the first Tax Period as follows:

* Exclude gains and losses when disposing of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.61
* Exclude just gains when disposing of Immovable Property and Intangible Assets.62

The election can only be made for the relevant assets or liabilities that are measured on the historical cost basis. The election must be made upon the submission of the first Tax Return and is irrevocable except under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to approval by the FTA.63

7.2. Gains on disposal of Qualifying Immovable Property

A Taxable Person may elect to adjust their Taxable Income for calculating the gains on the disposal of any Qualifying Immovable Property.64 The election should be made for each Qualifying Immovable Property (i.e. on an asset-by-asset basis) upon submission of the first Tax Return.65


61 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
62 Articles 2 and 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
63 Articles 2(5), 3(4) and 4(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
64 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
65 Article 2(5) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


7.2.1. What is a Qualifying Immovable Property

A Qualifying Immovable Property is defined as any Immovable Property that meets all of the following conditions:66

* it is owned prior to the first Tax Period;
* it is measured in the Financial Statements on a historical cost basis; and
* it is disposed of or deemed to be disposed of during or after the first Tax Period for the purposes of determining the Taxable Income for a value exceeding the net book value.

7.2.2. Two methods to compute the excluded amount of the gain

In relation to the Qualifying Immovable Property, there are two methods to compute the excluded amount of the gain and the Taxable Person may elect either method. The methods are as follows:67

Method 1: Valuation method

The excluded amount is the amount of the gain that would have arisen had the Qualifying Immovable Property been disposed of at Market Value at the start of the first Tax Period, and considering the cost of the Qualifying Immovable Property as the higher of the original cost and the net book value.68

The Market Value at the start of the first Tax Period shall be determined by the relevant government competent authority in the UAE such as the Department of Municipalities and Transport (DMA) in Abu Dhabi, the Dubai Land Department (DLD) in Dubai, or similar authorities for each Emirate. It may also be determined by outsourced third parties authorised by the government competent authority.

The Market Value will, therefore, be determined based on the government competent authority's rules and regulations.











66 Article 1 and Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
67 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
68 Article 2(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


Example 15: Valuation method on Qualifying Immovable Property

Company C has a first Tax Period from 1 August 2023 to 31 July 2024.

On 1 August 2023, the opening balance sheet shows the following in respect of an Immovable Property:

* Original cost: AED 20 million
* Accumulated depreciation: AED 3 million
* Net book value: AED 17 million

The Immovable Property was purchased on 1 August 2020 (assumed to be at arm's length) and is measured on a historical cost basis.

The Immovable Property is a Qualifying Immovable Property.

In the Tax Return of the first Tax Period, Company C makes an election for the transitional relief (under the valuation method) in respect of the Immovable Property.

Market Value at the start of the first Tax Period:

Step 1 - Company C obtains a valuation from the relevant government competent authority in the UAE and the Market Value of the Qualifying Immovable Property on 1 August 2023, as determined by the government competent authority is AED 24 million.

Taxable Income adjustments upon disposal:

Step 2 - Company C sells the Immovable Property for AED 27 million on 31 July 2024, when its net book value is AED 16,000,000 following the recognition of depreciation of AED 1,000,000 for the year ended 31 July 2024.

The Taxable Income adjustments for the Tax Period of disposal will therefore be as follows:

Calculation of total gain
Amounts (in AED)


Sale price
27,000,000


Net book value
16,000,000


Total gain
11,000,000


Calculation of excluded gain (i.e. pre-Corporate Tax gain)


Market Value
24,000,000




Higher of the original cost and the net book value (i.e. AED 20,000,000 vs AED 17,000,000
20,000,000


Excluded gain
(Market Value - Higher of the original cost and the net book value)
4,000,000


Calculation of taxable gain (i.e. post-Corporate Tax gain)


Taxable gain
(Total gain - Excluded gain)
7,000,000



Method 2: Time apportionment method

The excluded gain amount is calculated by applying four steps to pro-rate the excluded gain based on the period elapsed between the time the asset was purchased and the start of the first Tax Period.

To explain these steps, the same facts mentioned in the previous example are used below (except that the Taxable Person elects to use the time apportionment method):69






69 Article 2(2)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.




7.3. Gains on disposal of Qualifying Intangible Assets

A Taxable Person may elect to adjust its Taxable Income for calculating the gains on disposal of all Qualifying Intangible Assets.70 This could include, for example goodwill, trademarks and patents.

The election applies to all Qualifying Intangible Assets, i.e. it is not an asset-by-asset election and will be deemed irrevocable except under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to approval by the FTA.71





70 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
71 Article 3(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


7.3.1. What is a Qualifying Intangible Asset

A Qualifying Intangible Asset is defined as any Intangible Asset that meets all of the following conditions:72

* it is owned prior to the first Tax Period;
* it is measured in the Financial Statements on a historical cost basis; and
* it is disposed of or deemed to be disposed of during or after the first Tax Period for the purposes of determining the Taxable Income for a value exceeding the net book value.

An Intangible Asset is defined as an intangible asset as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.73

7.3.2. How to compute the excluded gain

Only the time apportionment method can be used to calculate the excluded gain for Qualifying Intangible Assets. It is based on the period elapsed between the time the asset was purchased and the start of the first Tax Period.74

Except under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to approval by the FTA, only a maximum period of (10) ten years can be used to calculate the number of days the Qualifying Intangible Asset is owned before the first Tax Period.75

The calculation is demonstrated in the following example:


72 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
73 Article 1 of Ministerial Decision No.120 of 2023.
74 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
75 Article 3(5) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


Company D sells the Intangible Assets on 31 July 2024 for AED 20 million. The Intangible Assets are considered Qualifying Intangible Assets.

In the Tax Return of the first Tax Period, Company D makes an election for the transitional relief in respect of all its Qualifying Intangible Assets.

Calculation of the excluded gain (i.e. pre-Corporate Tax gain):

Step 1 - Calculate the amount of gain that would have arisen upon the disposal of the Qualifying Intangible Asset, had its cost been equal to the higher of the original cost and the net book value at the start of the first Tax Period.

Gain = 20,000,000 - 15,000,000 = 5,000,000
Step 2 - Divide the number of days the Qualifying Intangible Asset is owned before the first Tax Period by the total number of days the Qualifying Intangible Asset is owned.

the number of days the Qualifying Immovable Property is owned before the first Tax Period
A=
The total number of days the Qualifying Immovable Property is owned


A= 729 (Number of days between 1 August 2021 and 31 July 2023)
1,095 (Number of days between 1 August 2021 and 31 July 2024)

= 0.6657


Step 3 - Multiply the amount calculated in Step 1 by the amount calculated in Step 2

B= Gain x A
B= 5,000,000 x 0.6657 = 3,328,500

Step 4 - The amount calculated in Step 3 shall be the amount of gain on the Qualifying Intangible Asset excluded from the Taxable Income during the relevant Tax Period.

Excluded gain amount = 3,328,500
Calculation of the taxable gain (i.e. post-Corporate Tax gain) Total gain = Sale price - Net book value
= 20,000,000 - 10,000,000
= 10,000,000

Taxable gain = Total gain - Excluded gain
= 10,000,000 - 3,328,500
= 6,671,500



7.4. Gains and losses on disposal of Qualifying Financial Assets and Qualifying Financial Liabilities

A Taxable Person may elect to adjust its Taxable Income when calculating the gains and losses on all Qualifying Financial Assets and Qualifying Financial Liabilities.76 This could include, for example, investments held on trading account (for example shareholdings which do not qualify for the Participation Exemption) and loans payable or receivable.

When made, this election applies to all Qualifying Financial Assets and Qualifying Financial Liabilities, i.e. it is not made at the level of individual assets and liabilities. It is deemed irrevocable except under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to approval by the FTA.77

Unlike other similar adjustments (see Sections 7.2 and 7.3), this election applies not only for gains but also for losses.

7.4.1. What is a Qualifying Financial Asset

A Qualifying Financial Asset is defined as a Financial Asset that meets all of the following conditions:78

* it is owned prior to the first Tax Period; and
* it is measured in the Financial Statements on a historical cost basis.

A Financial Asset is a financial asset as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.79

7.4.2. What is a Qualifying Financial Liability

A Qualifying Financial Liability is defined as a Financial Liability that meets all of the following conditions:80

* it is owned prior to the first Tax Period; and
* it is measured in the Financial Statements on a historical cost basis.


76 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
77 Article 4(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
78 Article 1 and Articles 4(1)(a) and 4(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
79 Article 1 of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
80 Article 1 and Article 4(1)(a) and 4(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


A Financial Liability is a financial liability as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.81

7.4.3. How to compute the excluded gain or loss

There is only one method available for computing the excluded gain or loss on Qualifying Financial Assets and Qualifying Financial Liabilities. The Taxable Person excludes the amount of the gain or loss that would have arisen, at the start of the first Tax Period, had the Qualifying Financial Assets or Qualifying Financial Liabilities been disposed of at Market Value and considering the cost of these Assets or Liabilities as being equal to the net book value.82

There is no requirement for Market Value to be determined by a competent government authority.

Example 18: Taxable Income adjustments for Qualifying Financial Assets

Company E has a first Tax Period from 1 February 2024 to 31 January 2025. On 1 February 2024, its opening balance sheet shows the following Financial Assets:

Shares in Company Z: AED 10,000 representing 1,000 shares for a cost of AED 10 per share.

The shares in Company Z are Qualifying Financial Assets. These shares were bought on the stock exchange, i.e. on an arm's length basis, in September 2023 for AED 10,000 and do not benefit from any other exemption or relief for Corporate Tax purposes.

In its first Tax Return, Company E makes the election to apply the transitional relief in respect of all its Qualifying Financial Assets and Qualifying Financial Liabilities.

Company E sells the shares in August 2025 on the stock exchange for AED 5 per share and for a total of AED 5,000.

Calculation of the excluded gain (loss), i.e. pre-Corporate Tax gain (loss): Step 1 - Market Value at the start of the first Tax Period




81 Article 1 of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
82 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.




7.5. Impact of group ownership

Where relevant assets and liabilities (Immovable Property, Intangible Assets, or Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities) are owned by another member of a Qualifying Group or a Tax Group prior to acquisition by the Taxable Person, there is a "look through" provision such that the calculation of the excluded gain or loss also takes account of that period of ownership.83 The conditions are set out below.








83 Article 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.



7.5.1. Ownership of Transferred Assets and Liabilities

Transferred Assets and Liabilities are Immovable Property, Intangible Assets, Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities that have been held solely by the Taxable Person and by one or more of the following Persons:84

* a member of the same Qualifying Group of the Taxable Person that has acquired the relevant assets or liabilities in accordance with Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law; or
* a member of the same Tax Group of the Taxable Person that has acquired the relevant assets or liabilities in accordance with Article 42(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

The term ownership includes the ownership by any Person who falls within the above categories.

7.5.2. Calculation of the period of ownership of Non-Financial Transferred Assets

Assets, other than Financial Assets, which are included within the definition of Transferred Assets and Liabilities are referred to as Non-Financial Transferred Assets.85

For the purpose of calculating the excluded amount of gain in respect of Non-Financial Transferred Assets under the time apportionment method, the period of the ownership includes the period of ownership by:86

* any member of the same Qualifying Group of the Taxable Person that has acquired the relevant assets in accordance with Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law; or
* any member of the same Tax Group of the Taxable Person that has acquired the relevant assets in accordance with Article 42(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Any period of ownership before the most recent Non-Qualifying Transfer is excluded.87 A Non-Qualifying Transfer is a transfer that is not covered, or would not have been covered had the Corporate Tax Law been effective, under Article 26(1) or under Article 42(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.88

84 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
85 Article 5(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
86 Article 5(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
87 Article 5(4) of the Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
88 Article 5(2)(c) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.



Example 19: Computation of excluded gain of an Immovable Property for a Taxable Person within a Qualifying Group

Company F and G are members of a Qualifying Group.89 Both companies have a first Tax Period from 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024. On 1 January 2024, Company G's opening balance sheet includes land of AED 30,000,000.

Additional information:

* Both companies are subsidiaries of Company H. Since 2010, Company H has owned 90% of Company F and 70% of Company G. Company H's shareholding in Company G increased to 90% on 1 January 2021.
* Company F purchased the land from a third party on 1 January 2019 for AED 27,000,000.
* On 1 September 2020, Company F transferred the land to Company G for AED 30,000,000.
* The sale transaction was conducted at arm's length.
* The land is recorded in Company G's Financial Statements on a historical cost basis.
* Company G sells the land on 31 December 2024 to a third party for AED 35,000,000.
* Company G elects to adjust their Taxable Income for calculating the gain for the land using the time apportionment method (see Section 7.2).

Summary of the relevant facts for the calculation of the excluded amount of gain:


Particulars
Purchase date and
amount (AED)
Transfer date and
amount (AED)
Sale	date	and
amount (AED)

Land
1 January 2019
1 September 2020
31	December
2024

27,000,000
30,000,000
35,000,000

Analysis:

Both Company G and Company F are members of a Qualifying Group in 2024. However, they would not have been members of the same Qualifying Group had the Corporate Tax Law been effective on 1 September 2020 (the date of the transfer). This is because Company H had a 70% shareholding in Company G at the time of transfer. Accordingly, the ownership period from 1 January 2019 to 1 September


89 Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law.


2020 when the Immovable Property was held by Company F cannot be included in the total ownership period of Company G in the same asset.








Note: Had Company H held more than 75% in both Company G and Company F at the time of transfer, then Company G's ownership period would have been counted from 1 January 2019.

Calculation of the excluded amount of gain of the land:

Step 1 - Calculate the amount of gain that would have arisen upon the disposal of the Qualifying Immovable Property, had its cost been equal to the higher of the original cost and the net book value at the start of the first Tax Period.

Gain = 35,000,000 - 30,000,000 = 5,000,000

Step 2 - Divide the number of days the Qualifying Immovable Property is owned before the first Tax Period by the total number of days the Qualifying Immovable Property is owned.

the number of days the Qualifying Immovable Property is owned before the first Tax Period
A=
The total number of days the Qualifying Immovable Property is owned

1,216 (Number of days between 1 September 2020 and 31 December 2023) 1,582 (Number of days between 1 September 2020 and 31 December 2024)

Only the period from 1 September 2020 is considered.

Step 3 - Multiply the amount calculated in paragraph Step 1 by the amount calculated in Step 2

B = Gain x A
B = 5,000,000 x 0.7686 = 3,843,000

Step 4 - The amount calculated in Step 3 shall be the amount of gain on the Qualifying Immovable Property excluded from the Taxable Income during the relevant Tax Period.


Excluded gain = 3,843,000

Accordingly, the taxable gain would be decreased by AED 3,843,000 as follows:

Description
Amount in AED


Total gain
5,000,000


Excluded gain
(3,843,000)


Taxable gain
1,157,000


7.6. Subsequent movements in other assets or liabilities in the opening balance sheet

The Corporate Tax treatment of movements in other items in the opening balance sheet will follow the accounting treatment. For example, a provision in respect of inventory recorded before a company was subject to Corporate Tax and then reversed after it was subject to Corporate Tax would normally be taxable at the time the credit was recorded in the accounts. This is because inventory is not an Immovable Property, an Intangible Asset or a Financial Asset eligible for the transitional relief.

7.7. Arm's length principle: opening balance sheet

Items in the opening balance sheet relating to transactions with Related Parties, such as other group companies, should reflect arm's length market pricing, consistent with the arm's length principle.90 Where this is not the case, any deductible or taxable amounts in the first and subsequent Tax Periods (where relevant) should be adjusted to reflect the arm's length basis.

For example, if inventory was acquired from another group company prior to the first Tax Period at a price higher than the Market Value, the subsequent tax deduction in respect of the related cost of goods would be limited to the arm's length amount.
















90 Article 61(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


8. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
November 2023
* First version

	













Business Restructuring Relief
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGBRR1

April 2024


Contents
1. Glossary	3
2. Introduction	8
2.1. Overview	8
2.2. Purpose of this guide	8
2.3. Who should read this guide?	8
2.4. How to use this guide	8
2.5. Legislative references	9
2.6. Status of this guide	10
3. Business Restructuring Relief: general aspects	11
3.1. Overview of transactions covered in scope of Business Restructuring Relief	11
3.2. Examples of Business restructuring transactions covered under Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law	12
3.3. Examples of transactions covered under Article 27(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law
......................................................................................................................... 14
3.4. Examples of transactions not covered under Business Restructuring Relief	15
3.5. Meaning of Business or independent part of a Business	16
3.6. Consideration for transfer	17
3.6.1. Recipient of consideration	17
3.6.2. Payer or issuer of consideration	18
3.6.3. Form of consideration	20
3.6.4. Situations where no consideration is required	23
4. Conditions to qualify for Business Restructuring Relief 25
4.1. Legally compliant condition	25
4.2. Taxable Persons condition	26
4.3. Exempt Person condition and Qualifying Free Zone Person condition	28
4.4. Financial Year condition	28
4.5. Accounting Standards condition	29
4.6. Valid commercial reasons condition	30
5. Consequences of electing for Business Restructuring Relief	31
5.1. Transfer of assets and liabilities at net book value	31

5.1.1. Determining net book value of assets and liabilities transferred	32
5.1.2. Adjustments to be made by the Transferee	32
5.2. Value of shares or ownership interest received	37
5.3. Transfer of Tax Losses	38
5.4. Consequences of not meeting requirements or not electing for Business Restructuring Relief	39
6. Clawback of Business Restructuring Relief	41
6.1. Transfer of shares in the Transferor or Transferee	41
6.1.1. Situations where transfer of shares will trigger clawback of relief	42
6.1.2. Clawback in the context of the transfer of shares	46
6.2. Subsequent transfer of Business	51
6.2.1. Situations where Business Restructuring Relief is not clawed back	53
6.3. Consequences of the clawback	54
6.3.1. Consequences in hands of the Transferor	54
6.3.2. Consequences in hands of the Transferee	56
7. Compliance requirements	59
7.1. Election by Transferor	59
7.2. Record keeping	59
8. Interaction of Business Restructuring Relief with other parts of Corporate Tax Law	60
8.1. Qualifying Group Relief	60
8.2. Realisation basis	61
8.3. Transitional relief	62
9. Updates and amendments	64

1. Glossary

Accounting Income: The accounting net profit or loss for the relevant Tax Period as per the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Accounting Standards: The accounting standards specified in Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.

AED: The United Arab Emirates dirham.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or activities, conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business Restructuring Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for Business restructuring transactions, available under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.

Connected Person: Any Person affiliated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 36(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments.

Double Taxation Agreement: An international agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Exempt Person: A Person exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Financial Asset: Financial asset as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.


Financial Liability: Financial liability as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.

Financial Year: The Gregorian calendar year, or the twelve-month period for which the Taxable Person prepares Financial Statements.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established, or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.

IFRS for SMEs: International Financial Reporting Standard for small and medium- sized entities.

Immovable Property: Means any of the following:
a. Any area of land over which rights or interests or services can be created.
b. Any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed.
c. Any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.

Intangible Asset: An intangible asset as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Islamic Financial Instrument: A financial instrument which is in compliance with Sharia principles and is economically equivalent to any instrument provided for under Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023, or a combination thereof.


Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.

Membership and Partner Interests: The equity interests owned by a member or a partner in the juridical person, which entitles the member or the partner to a share of the profits, determined with reference to the member's or the partner's capital contribution, and which may be transferred to others.

Net Interest Expenditure: The Interest expenditure amount that is in excess of the Interest income amount as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Ordinary Shares: The category of capital stock or equivalent ownership interest, which gives its owner, on a share-by-share basis, equal entitlement to voting rights, profits, and liquidation proceeds.

Participating Interest: An ownership interest in the shares or capital of a juridical person that meets the conditions referred to in Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participation Exemption: An exemption from Corporate Tax for income from a Participating Interest, available under Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.

Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.

Preferred Shares: The category of capital stock or equity interest which gives its owner priority entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds ahead of owners of Ordinary Shares.

Qualifying Free Zone Person: A Free Zone Person that meets the conditions of Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law and is subject to Corporate Tax under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Group: Two or more Taxable Persons that meet the conditions of Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Qualifying Group Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for transfers within a Qualifying Group, available under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.

Redeemable Shares: The category of capital stock or equity interest, which the juridical person issuing this instrument has agreed to redeem or buy back from the owner of this instrument at a future date or after a specific event, for a predetermined amount or with reference to a predetermined amount.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

State Sourced Income: Income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE as specified in Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Loss: Any negative Taxable Income as calculated under the Corporate Tax Law for a given Tax Period.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

Transferee: A Taxable Person to which the entire Business or an independent part of the Business of the Transferor is transferred under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Transferor: A Taxable Person that transfers its entire Business or an independent part of its Business to another Taxable Person under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.


Unincorporated Partnership: A relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on the Business Restructuring Relief available under Article 27 of the UAE Corporate Tax Law.

The guide provides the readers with an overview of the following in respect of the Business Restructuring Relief:
* transactions covered within scope of the relief,
* conditions to be eligible for the relief,
* consequences of electing for the relief,
* circumstances when the relief will be clawed back and consequences of clawback of the relief,
* compliance requirements, and
* interaction with other provisions of the UAE Corporate Tax Law.

2.3. Who should read this guide?

The guide should be read by any Taxable Person intending to transfer its entire Business or part of an independent Business to another Taxable Person or who will become a Taxable Person as a result of the transfer.

It is intended to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.


It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Corporate Tax Law apply to Business Restructuring Relief. The examples in the guide:
- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show all the possible interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes, and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:
* Federal Decree-Law No. 32 of 2021 on Commercial Companies, is referred to as "Commercial Companies Law",
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments, is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law",
* Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023 on Determination of a Non-Resident Person's Nexus in the State for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023",
* Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023",
* Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023 on the Participation Exemption for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023",
* Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023 on the Adjustments Under the Transitional Rules for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023",
* Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023 on Transfers Within a Qualifying Group for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023",


* Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023 on Business Restructuring Relief for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023",
* Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023 on the General Rules for Determining Taxable Income for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023", and
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 5 of 2023 on Conditions for Change in Tax Period for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023".

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the tax implications for Business Restructuring Relief relating to the Corporate Tax Law. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. Business Restructuring Relief: general aspects

The Corporate Tax Law eliminates the Corporate Tax impact of certain transactions undertaken as part of the restructuring or reorganisation of a Business.1 Ordinarily, Business restructuring transactions such as mergers or demergers could result in a taxable gain or loss, even where the ultimate ownership of the Business or Taxable Person does not change, or the original owners of the Business or Taxable Person retain an ownership in the restructured Business. In order not to hamper restructuring transactions undertaken for valid commercial or other non-fiscal reasons, the Business Restructuring Relief in Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law allows certain types of restructuring transactions to take place in a tax neutral manner.

Business Restructuring Relief is available only if the relevant conditions are met (see Section 4) and the Transferor has elected for the relief to apply (see Section 7.1).

Further, the relief would be clawed back if, within two years, the Transferee ultimately disposes of the transferred Business, or the ownership of the Transferor or Transferee changes (see Section 6).

3.1. Overview of transactions covered in scope of Business Restructuring Relief

Business Restructuring Relief applies to two categories of transactions. The first category is where there is a transfer of an entire Business or an independent part of the Business from one Taxable Person to another. This is covered by Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. The second category is where there is a transfer of an entire Business from one or more Taxable Persons to another, and the Transferor then ceases to exist. This is covered by Article 27(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. An overview of the two categories is given in the table below. As each category has specific conditions attached, they are discussed separately in this guide.

Topic
Restructuring transactions in scope of
Article 27(1)(a)
Restructuring transactions in scope of
Article 27(1)(b)
Transferor	(Refer Section 4
A Taxable Person
One or more Taxable Persons who cease to exist as a result of the
transfer.
Transferee	(Refer Section 4)
Another Taxable Person or a Person who will become a Taxable Person as a result of the transfer

1 Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.


Item of transfer (Refer Section 3.5)
Entire	Business	or	an
independent	part	of	its Business
Entire Business
Types of consideration for the transfer (Refer Section 3.6)
* Shares or other ownership interests of the Transferee.
* Part of the consideration may be in a form other than shares or ownership interest, subject to certain conditions.2
* Consideration may be received by the Transferor or another Person that has at least 50% direct or indirect ownership interest in the Transferor.3
* Consideration may be paid/issued by the Transferee or another Person that has at least 50% direct or
indirect ownership interest in the Transferee.4

3.2. Examples of Business restructuring transactions covered under Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law

The following transactions can fall within the scope of Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law, provided the relevant conditions are met:5
* A natural person converts their sole proprietorship Business into an incorporated entity and that natural person holds shares or interests of the incorporated entity (for example a single owner Limited Liability Company (LLC)).
* An Unincorporated Partnership applies to the FTA to become a Taxable Person in its own right under Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law, in which case the partners in the Unincorporated Partnership will be considered as having transferred their ownership of the Businesses to a separate Taxable Person.6 See Section 3.6.4.
* A transaction in terms of which the Transferor transfers its Business to a third- party Transferee, which already holds another Business, in exchange for the issue of shares by the Transferee to the Transferor.
* A legal demerger where the Transferor transfers an independent part of its Business under universal title to another Taxable Person (i.e. the Transferee) in consideration for shares of the Transferee. The Transferor continues to exist after the demerger. Shareholders of the Transferor also become shareholders of the Transferee following the demerger. This is illustrated below where the Transferee is a third party prior to the demerger.


2 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
3 Article 27(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023. 4 Article 27(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023. 5 Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
6 Article 7 of Ministerial Decision No 133 of 2023





* A hive down transaction where the Transferor entity transfers its Business or an independent part of its Business into its subsidiary (Transferee) and receives additional shares of the subsidiary as consideration, as shown below. This scenario would be the same if the subsidiary was a newly incorporated entity established by the Transferor to acquire the Business.


* A Business merger where the Transferor transfers its Business or an independent part of its Business into a non-wholly owned entity (Transferee) and receives shares of the subsidiary as consideration, which would dilute the other shareholder(s) of the Transferee.




3.3. Examples of transactions covered under Article 27(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law

The following transactions can fall within the scope of Article 27(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law, provided the relevant conditions are met:7
* A legal merger where the Transferor transfers its entire Business to the Transferee under universal title, after which:
- the Transferor is dissolved, or ceases to exist under law, without going into liquidation, and the shares or ownership interests of the Transferor are cancelled by law, and
- the owner(s) of the Transferor become the owner(s) of the Transferee, for example, the Transferee issues new shares to the owner(s) of the Transferor in exchange for the transfer.



7 Article 27(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.



* A full legal demerger where the Transferor transfers its entire Business under universal title to at least two or more persons, after which the Transferor entity is dissolved without going into liquidation, and shares of the Transferor entity are cancelled by law. Shareholders of the Transferor entity become shareholders of the Transferee entity.


3.4. Examples of transactions not covered under Business Restructuring Relief

The following transactions are examples of transactions that are not covered under the Business Restructuring Relief:
* Where a Taxable Person liquidates (ceases to have legal existence)8 and assets or liabilities of that Taxable Person are transferred to another Taxable Person as a result of liquidation, such a transaction is not covered under the Business Restructuring Relief.9
* Where a subsidiary merges into its parent company after which the subsidiary dissolves under law, without going into liquidation and its shares are cancelled by law. In this case, there will be no consideration on transfer since the Transferor

8 Article 12(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
9 Article 12(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


ceases to exist and the Transferee is the parent company of the Transferor and cannot issue shares to itself.

* Where a company transfers its Business or an independent part of its Business to a wholly owned subsidiary without issuing shares or other ownership interests. As no consideration is paid in shares or other ownership interests, the conditions are not met. However, it is possible that Qualifying Group Relief may be available.10
* Where an independent part of a Business is transferred by a wholly owned subsidiary to its parent without issuing shares or other ownership interests. As no consideration is paid in shares or other ownership interests, the conditions are not met. However, it is possible that Qualifying Group Relief may be available. 11

3.5. Meaning of Business or independent part of a Business

The definition of Business covers any activity conducted regularly on an ongoing and independent basis.12 It includes activities such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

If the Transferor transfers only part of its assets and liabilities to the Transferee, it should be assessed whether the assets and liabilities transferred can be considered as an "independent part of a Business" in order to qualify as Business restructuring covered under Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. An independent part of a Business refers to a part of the Business that may be operated independently and separately from the other Business of the Taxable Person. In this regard, some indicative factors may be as follows:
* Assets and liabilities transferred must be capable of being operated independently as a separate and distinct Business. Individual assets or liabilities cannot be considered as an independent part of a Business, if they require ongoing support from the other assets and liabilities to be operated. However, an integrated pool


10 Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law. 11 Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law. 12 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.


of assets and liabilities could meet this condition. For example, if a real estate investment company transfers pieces of real estate to individual holding companies, this can be an independent part of a Business, if the piece(s) transferred are capable of being operated independently and are not intertwined with the rest of the real estate.
* Part of a Business is transferred on a going concern basis as per applicable Accounting Standards.
* The fact that some form of operational support is required (whether from a Related Party or from a third party) does not imply that the transfer is not a transfer of an independent part of a Business. For example, a transfer can qualify as an independent part of a Business even if certain functions stay behind, for example accounts department, information technology support, human resources etc. Whether an activity is mere operational support depends on the specific facts and circumstances. Activities such as information technology cannot be considered as a support function if that function is key to ensuring continued operation as a Business.

3.6. Consideration for transfer

3.6.1. Recipient of consideration

One of the conditions for Business Restructuring Relief on the transfer of a Business or an independent part of a Business is that the consideration for the transfer is to be received by the Transferor.13 As an exception, a transfer will still be considered to meet the conditions for the Business Restructuring Relief if the consideration is received by a Person that has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 50% in the Transferor.14 Thus, the consideration for a transferred Business or an independent part of a Business can be received by the Transferor, or a shareholder of the Transferor who holds at least 50% of ownership interests, directly or indirectly, in the Transferor. Alternatively, consideration for the transfer can also be split between the Transferor, and its direct or indirect shareholder(s) who meets the 50% holding condition.

The shareholder of the Transferor who can receive the consideration for a transfer within the framework of Business Restructuring Relief can be a juridical person or a natural person and is not required to be a Taxable Person. Thus, the condition is met even if the consideration for the transfer is received by a shareholder of the Transferor who is:
* a natural person who is not engaged in any Business or Business Activities; or


13 Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
14 Article 27(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


* a foreign company incorporated and managed outside the UAE and who does not have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.


3.6.2. Payer or issuer of consideration

As a general rule, for Business Restructuring Relief, the consideration for a transfer is in the form of shares or other ownership interests of the Transferee.16 As an exception, a transfer will still be considered to meet the conditions for the Business Restructuring

15 Article 27(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
16 Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Relief, if the consideration is in the form of shares or other ownership interests issued or granted by a Person that has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 50% in the Transferee.17 Thus, the consideration can be in the form of shares or other ownership interests of the Transferee, or shareholder of the Transferee who holds at least 50% of ownership interests, directly or indirectly, in the Transferee. It is also possible that the consideration for a transfer is a mixture of shares or other ownership interests in the Transferee and its direct or indirect shareholder(s) who meet the 50% holding condition.

It is possible to meet the conditions of Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law if the shareholder(s) of the Transferee issuing or granting the consideration is(are) not a Taxable Person. However, as the consideration must be in the form of shares or ownership interests in a Person, such a person must be capable of issuing or granting shares or ownership interests, as applicable.


17 Article 27(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.




3.6.3. Form of consideration

In order to qualify for Business Restructuring Relief, the consideration for transfer of a Business or an independent part of a Business should be in the form of shares or other ownership interests.19

3.6.3.1. What is an ownership interest?

The term "ownership interest" should be applied consistently with how it is applied in other parts of the Corporate Tax Law.20 Any other guidance relating to this term when used in other parts of the Corporate Tax Law should similarly apply in the context of Business Restructuring Relief under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law as well.

An ownership interest can be understood as any equity or similar interest (for example, a partnership interest) that carries rights to the profits and liquidation proceeds of the entity whose shares are issued.

An ownership interest shall only be treated as such if it is classified as equity interest under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person holding the ownership interest.21 This ensures that the mere legal ownership of shares or other ownership interests is not sufficient, in case the Accounting Standards do not treat the ownership interest as an equity interest.

An ownership interest can include, but is not limited to, holdings in any one or a combination of the following instruments:22





18 Article 27(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
19 Article 27(1)(a) and (b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
20 Articles 23, 26, 27, 31, 35, 36, 38, 39 and 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.
21 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
22 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


Type of instrument
Description


Ordinary Shares
Category of capital stock or equivalent ownership interest, which gives its owner, on a share-by-share basis, equal entitlement to voting rights, profits, and liquidation proceeds.

Preferred Shares
Category of capital stock or equity interest which gives its owner priority entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds ahead of owners of Ordinary Shares.



Redeemable Shares
Category of capital stock or equity interest which the juridical person issuing this instrument has agreed to redeem or buy back from the owner of this instrument at a future date or after a specific event, for a predetermined amount or with reference to a predetermined amount.


Membership and Partner Interests
Equity interests owned by a member or a partner in the juridical person, which entitles the member or the partner to a share of the profits, determined with reference to the member's or the partner's capital contribution, and which may be transferred to others.
Islamic	Financial
Instrument         or         a
combination	of arrangements that form part of the same Islamic Financial Instrument


A financial instrument which is compliant with Sharia principles.

The above list of ownership instruments is illustrative. Other types of instruments which grant rights to the profits and liquidation proceeds of the entity whose shares or ownership interest are transferred (i.e. Transferee or a Person that has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 50% in the Transferee) and are classified as an equity interest under the applicable Accounting Standards may also qualify as ownership interest.23 For example, the definition of Ordinary Shares refers to capital stock which gives its owner equal entitlement to voting rights, profits, and liquidation proceeds. However, shares that do not carry voting rights but have rights to profits and liquidation proceeds can also qualify as an ownership interest, if classified as equity



23 Article 3(1) and (2) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


interest under the applicable Accounting Standards of the Person who is holding the shares or ownership interests which are issued as consideration of the transfer.24

Ordinarily debt instruments do not qualify as an ownership interest. However, a debt instrument (including one convertible into equity) is treated as an ownership interest if it is classified as an equity interest under the Accounting Standards applied by the Person who is holding shares or ownership interests which are issued as a consideration of transfer.25

3.6.3.2. Holder of ownership interest

A Taxable Person shall be treated as holding an ownership interest where the following two conditions are met:26
* the ownership interest is controlled by that Taxable Person under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, and
* that Taxable Person has the right to the economic benefits produced by the ownership interest under the Accounting Standards as applied by the Taxable Person.

With respect to the first condition, the meaning of "control" is to be determined in accordance with the applicable Accounting Standards. On the basis of Accounting Standards27, a Taxable Person shall be considered to be controlling the ownership interest of a juridical person (i.e. the investee) if and only if it has all of the following:
* power over the investee,
* exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and
* the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor's returns.

With respect to the second condition, the Taxable Person holding the ownership interests in another juridical person must be the economic owner of the ownership interests. A Taxable Person is the economic owner of an ownership interest where they have (or are entitled to) the benefits and burdens of ownership, including rights to profits, liquidation proceeds, or voting in respect of the ownership interests held, and they have not renounced or transferred such rights under another arrangement. Accordingly, if a Taxable Person holds the ownership interest in the capacity of an agent, nominee, fiduciary or administrator, so that they are simply a conduit for another Person who in fact is entitled to the benefits and burdens of ownership, the former is not the economic owner of the ownership interest.


24 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
25 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
26 Article 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
27 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.



3.6.3.3. Other form of consideration

In addition to shares or other ownership interests, if any other form of consideration is paid such as cash, a transfer will still be considered to meet the conditions of the Business Restructuring Relief if the Market Value of the other form of consideration does not exceed the lower of:28
* the net book value of the assets and liabilities transferred, or
* 10% of the nominal value of the ownership interest issued.


Example 3: Consideration other than shares

Company A and Company B are companies incorporated and resident in the UAE and who use the Gregorian calendar year as their Financial Year and Tax Period.

On 1 July 2024, Company A transfers all of its Business to Company B in exchange for shares in Company B with a nominal value of AED 6 million, and a cash payment of AED 0.5 million. The net book value of the assets and liabilities transferred was AED 6.5 million. Company A elects to apply Business Restructuring Relief on the transfer.

Although the consideration for the transfer of the Business did not fully consist of shares or other ownership interests, the transfer can still benefit from Business Restructuring Relief if the cash consideration does not exceed the lower of:
* the net book value of the assets and liabilities transferred (which is AED 6.5 million in this case), and
* 10% of the nominal value of the ownership interests issued (which is AED 0.6 million in this case).29

As the cash consideration of AED 0.5 million is less than AED 0.6 million, Business Restructuring Relief is permitted in this case, assuming all the other conditions are met.

3.6.4. Situations where no consideration is required

In order to qualify for Business Restructuring Relief, the transfer of a Business or an independent part of the Business is required to be for a consideration.30 In other words, if consideration is not paid or issued as part of the transaction, the transaction cannot


28 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
29 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
30 Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


be covered under Business Restructuring Relief. For examples on this, see Section 3.4.

An exception to this condition is made when the partners of an Unincorporated Partnership apply to treat the Unincorporated Partnership as a Taxable Person under Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law, and the application is approved by the FTA. In such a case, the application results in the Unincorporated Partnership becoming a Taxable Person, which is treated for Corporate Tax purposes as the relevant partners transferring their portion of the Unincorporated Partnership's assets and liabilities to the Unincorporated Partnership. However, the application does not legally trigger a transfer of assets and liabilities. In such circumstances, the no gain or loss treatment under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law can be available, even if the Unincorporated Partnership does not legally issue any consideration. In addition, the no gain or loss treatment will be available even if the Transferor(s) (i.e. partners of the Unincorporated Partnership) are not Taxable Persons.31

After an Unincorporated Partnership is treated as a Taxable Person, it can also be involved in other restructurings to which Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law applies. The exceptions under Article 27(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law only apply to a restructuring in which an Unincorporated Partnership applies to be treated as a Taxable Person and not to any other restructuring in which the Unincorporated Partnership is involved.32



























31 Article 27(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 7 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
32 Article 27(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 7 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


4. Conditions to qualify for Business Restructuring Relief

In order for Business Restructuring Relief to apply, all of the following conditions need to be met:
* the transfer is undertaken in accordance with, and meets all the conditions imposed by, the applicable legislation of the UAE (the "legally compliant condition"),33
* the Transferor and the Transferee are Resident Persons, or Non-Resident Persons that have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE (the "Taxable Persons condition"),34
* neither the Transferor nor the Transferee is an Exempt Person (the "Exempt Person condition"),35
* neither the Transferor nor the Transferee is a Qualifying Free Zone Person (the "Qualifying Free Zone Person condition"),36
* the Financial Year of Transferor and Transferee ends on the same date (the "Financial Year condition"),37
* the Transferor and Transferee prepare their Financial Statements using the same Accounting Standards (the "Accounting Standards condition"),38 and
* the transfer is undertaken for valid commercial or other non-fiscal reasons which reflect economic reality (the "valid commercial reasons condition").39

There is no condition in respect of the ownership of the Transferor or the Transferee. Thus, the relief covers Business restructuring transactions where a Business is transferred from one Related Party to another and also where the Business restructuring is between third parties.

4.1. Legally compliant condition

The Corporate Tax Law itself does not provide the legal basis for restructuring. Hence this condition requires that the Business restructuring transaction complies with all applicable other legislation in the UAE, that is any UAE Federal and/or Emirate laws and regulations, in order to benefit from Business Restructuring Relief. By way of example, where the Business Restructuring Relief is applied in relation to a merger, all the requirements for a valid merger in terms of Articles 285 to 293 of the Commercial Companies Law must be met.


33 Article 27(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 34 Article 27(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 35 Article 27(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 36 Article 27(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 37 Article 27(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 38 Article 27(2)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law. 39 Article 27(2)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law.



Business Restructuring Relief can also apply on a transfer that is completed under a foreign law. The legally compliant condition would be met as long as the transaction also complies with UAE law, i.e. does not conflict with any legislation in force in the UAE. If the transaction is not permissible under the applicable UAE law, then the relief would not be available.

4.2. Taxable Persons condition

For Business Restructuring Relief, the Transferor must be a Taxable Person.40 The Transferee must also be a Taxable Person or become a Taxable Person as a result of the Business restructuring transaction.41 This condition ensures that any gain or loss that benefits from the Business Restructuring Relief remains within the scope of Corporate Tax.

To qualify for Business Restructuring Relief, both the Transferor and Transferee must be a Taxable Person that is:
* a Resident Person, or
* a Non-Resident Person that has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.42

If a Non-Resident Person with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE transfers or is transferred assets or liabilities attributable to its Permanent Establishment to or from another Taxable Person in exchange for shares, this transfer could benefit from Business Restructuring Relief if all the other relevant conditions are met. This applies even if the Non-Resident Person transfers all assets and liabilities attributable to the Permanent Establishment and ceases to be a Taxable Person as a result of the Business restructuring transaction.43 Whilst the entity continues to exist in the foreign jurisdiction, its Permanent Establishment in the UAE ceases to exist, and so, the restructuring transaction cannot qualify for Business Restructuring Relief under Article 27(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law,44 but it could qualify for Business Restructuring Relief if the relevant conditions under Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law are met.45

Business Restructuring Relief can also apply if assets or liabilities are transferred from one Permanent Establishment in the UAE to another Permanent Establishment in the


40 Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
41 Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
42 Article 27(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 43 Article 27(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 44 Article 27(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 45 Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


UAE, if the relevant conditions are met.46 In addition, Business Restructuring Relief can also apply if a Person becomes a Taxable Person for the first time as a result of the transfer, because the Business or an independent part of a Business that is transferred qualifies as a Permanent Establishment in the UAE for the Transferee.47

However, Business Restructuring Relief is not available for transfers between a Permanent Establishment in the UAE and the head office since a Permanent Establishment and its head office are the same Person and Business Restructuring Relief can apply only to the transfer of a Business from one Taxable Person to another Taxable Person. Similarly, Business Restructuring Relief is not available if a Non- Resident Person transfers or is transferred a Business or an independent part of a Business which is not attributable to a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.48

The Transferor can be a natural person or a juridical person, provided it is a Taxable Person.49 Accordingly, an Unincorporated Partnership, that has applied and obtained approval from the FTA to be treated as a Taxable Person can also qualify as a Transferor which transfers its Business or an independent part of its Business in a Business restructuring transaction.

As the consideration is required to be in the form of shares or other ownership interests in the Transferee or its shareholder(s), the Transferee cannot be a natural person.50 The Transferee can be a juridical person and an Unincorporated Partnership treated as a Taxable Person under Article 16(9) of the Corporate Tax Law. 51






46 Article 27(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
47 Article 27(1)(a) read with Article 27(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
48 Article 27(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 49 Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 50 Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
51 Article 27(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 7 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


4.3. Exempt Person condition and Qualifying Free Zone Person condition

To qualify for Business Restructuring Relief, neither the Transferor or the Transferee can be an Exempt Person according to Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law nor a Qualifying Free Zone Person according to Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law.52 A Transferor or Transferee that is a Free Zone Person but not a Qualifying Free Zone Person may satisfy the condition of Article 27(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. Thus, the mere fact that a Taxable Person is incorporated or established in a Free Zone is not a barrier itself.

The conditions of Business Restructuring Relief are to be evaluated in respect of each Business restructuring transaction. Hence, the conditions should be tested in the Tax Period in which the Business restructuring transaction takes place. Accordingly, if the Transferor or Transferee becomes an Exempt Person or a Qualifying Free Zone Person in a subsequent Tax Period (i.e. the Tax Period after the Business restructuring transaction), the conditions of Article 27(2)(c) and 27(2)(d) are still met when the restructuring transaction took place. Thus, merely becoming an Exempt Person or Qualifying Free Zone Person in a subsequent Tax Period does not trigger a clawback of the Business Restructuring Relief claimed in an earlier Tax Period.

Where a Resident Person elects for Small Business Relief, it is not entitled to apply the provisions of Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.53

4.4. Financial Year condition

Business Restructuring Relief requires the Transferor and Transferee to have their Financial Years ending on the same date.54 This will result in the Transferor and Transferee having their Tax Period ending on the same date.55

Under the Corporate Tax Law, the Financial Year is defined as either the Gregorian calendar year (beginning on 1 January and ending on 31 December) or a 12-month period for which Financial Statements according to the applicable Accounting Standards are prepared.56

If the Transferor and Transferee meet all the conditions for Business Restructuring Relief except for the Financial Year condition, they may choose to change the end


52 Article 27(2)(c) and (d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
53 Article 21(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 54 Article 27(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 55 Article 57(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
56 Article 57(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


date of their Financial Year to align with each other. This could be done by one or both of them making an application to the FTA, subject to the following conditions:57
* the Taxable Person has not yet filed the Tax Return for the Tax Period it is applying to change,58
* the Tax Period is neither extended to last more than 18 months nor reduced to last less than 6 months,59
* where the Taxable Person filed an application to shorten a Tax Period, the application is not in respect of a prior or current Tax Period,60 and
* the application is made before the lapse of 6 months from the end of the original Tax Period.61

The Financial Year condition requires the Financial Year of the Transferor and Transferee to end on the same date.62 This does not necessarily require them to have the same Financial Year/Tax Period. For example, if the Transferor has a longer or shorter Financial Year as compared to the Transferee, the Financial Year condition is met so long as the reorganisation transaction on which Business Restructuring Relief is claimed takes place in a Financial Year that has the same end date of the Financial Year for both parties.

4.5. Accounting Standards condition

Business Restructuring Relief requires the Transferor and Transferee to prepare their Financial Statements using the same Accounting Standards.63 For the purposes of the UAE Corporate Tax Law, a Taxable Person is required to prepare Financial Statements based on IFRS.64 Where the Revenue of the Taxable Person does not exceed AED 50 million, they may choose to apply IFRS for SMEs instead.65 This condition would not be met if one Taxable Person uses IFRS and another Taxable Person uses IFRS for SMEs.

It is possible that the Transferor and Transferee meet all the conditions for Business Restructuring Relief except the Accounting Standards condition because one Taxable Person prepares its Financial Statements under IFRS for SMEs whereas the other applies IFRS. In such a case, the Taxable Person may choose to prepare its Financial

57 Article 58 of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 2(1)(b) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023.
58 Article 2(2) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023.
59 Article 2(3) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023.
60 Article 2(5) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023.
61 Article 2(4) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023. 62 Article 27(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 63 Article 26(2)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law.
64 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
65 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.


Statements under IFRS to align with the other Person.66 This does not require any application to the FTA.

Further, the Accounting Standards condition is not a requirement to follow the same accounting policies in the standalone Financial Statements. Thus, even if Transferor and Transferee follow the same Accounting Standards, they may follow different accounting policies, provided that such policies are permitted under the relevant Accounting Standards.

4.6. Valid commercial reasons condition

Business Restructuring Relief is only available to transfers undertaken for valid commercial or other non-fiscal reasons which reflect economic reality.67 The reason for the Business restructuring is to be understood after having full regard to all relevant facts and circumstances. The Transferor and Transferee must maintain appropriate documentation which can show that the Business restructuring transaction was for valid commercial reasons or other non-fiscal reasons which reflect economic reality. See section 7.2.
































66 Article 27(2)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law.
67 Article 27(2)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5. Consequences of electing for Business Restructuring Relief
5.1. Transfer of assets and liabilities at net book value

Where a Business or an independent part of a Business is transferred on a no gain or loss basis under Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, the assets or liabilities transferred will be treated as transferred at their net book value at the date when the transfer takes place.68 Accordingly, for the Transferor, there will be no taxable gain or loss on transferring the assets and liabilities.

Example 5: Transfer of assets and liabilities at net book value

Company F (a company resident and incorporated in the UAE) sells agricultural machinery. Company Z (a company resident and incorporated in the UAE) operates an agricultural machinery repair business.

During a Tax Period, Company Z bought Company F's Business in return for 20% of the shares in Company Z. The net book value of Company F's Business at the time of transfer was AED 2.3 million. The Market Value of the shares received by Company F was AED 2.7 million, which equals the Market Value of the Business. Company Z measures its assets and liabilities at fair value and, therefore, recognised the assets and liabilities of the transferred Business at a net book value of AED 2.7 million for accounting purposes.

For Corporate Tax purposes, the Business of Company F will be treated as having been transferred to Company Z at its net book value, AED 2.3 million. This means that when calculating their Taxable Income, Company F will be treated as having received a consideration of AED 2.3 million and Company Z will be treated as having paid AED 2.3 million for the Business. As a result, no gain or loss accrues to Company F for Corporate Tax purposes.

Description
Amounts
AED
in
Amount	of	consideration	deemed
received for Corporate Tax purposes
to
have
been
2.3 million
Less: Net book value of the Business
2.3 million
Gain/loss arising for Corporate Tax purposes on the
transfer of the Business
0



68 Article 27(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.1.1. Determining net book value of assets and liabilities transferred

The net book value of an asset or liability is generally the cost of the asset or liability after deducting any accumulated depreciation, amortisation and any other value adjustments that have been processed in the Financial Statements.

Thus, if the Financial Statements of the Transferor recognise depreciation or amortisation up to the date of transfer which occurred during the relevant Tax Period, the depreciation or amortisation will reduce the net book value of the assets and liabilities transferred by the Transferor. As a result, the depreciation and amortisation can reduce the Taxable Income of the Transferor for the period up to the transfer of the Business, even if the transfer itself does not trigger a gain or loss.

5.1.2. Adjustments to be made by the Transferee

Where Business Restructuring Relief applies, the assets and liabilities transferred are treated as being transferred at their net book value at the time of transfer so that neither a gain nor loss arises in the hands of the Transferor for Corporate Tax purposes.69 However, it is possible that commercially the assets and liabilities of the Business are acquired at Market Value and the Financial Statements of the Transferee reflect this Market Value. In line with this, the depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of the transferred assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements of the Transferee would be based on the Market Value. If Business Restructuring Relief applies, the Transferee shall make the following adjustments in the calculation of its Taxable Income:
* In cases other than upon realisation: to exclude depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of the transferred assets and liabilities to the extent that they relate to the gain or loss that arose to the Transferor and were not recognised as a result of the Business Restructuring Relief being applied.70
* Upon realisation of the assets and liabilities: to include any amount of depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of the transferred assets and liabilities that has not been recognised for Corporate Tax purposes under the application of Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.71 For these purposes, realisation includes the sale, disposal, transfer, settlement and complete worthlessness of any asset and the settlement, assignment, transfer and forgiveness of any liability, but does not apply to no gain or loss transfers under Article 26 or 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.72

The gain or loss not recognised as a result of Business Restructuring Relief will usually relate to various assets and liabilities. The requirement to exclude depreciation,

69 Article 27(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
70 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
71 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
72 Article 9 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


amortisation or other changes applies in relation to the assets and liabilities that were subject to the Business Restructuring Relief and applies only to the extent a gain or loss was not recognised in respect of that transferred asset or liability. Similarly, the requirement to include an amount upon realisation only applies to the extent a gain or loss was not recognised in respect of that transferred asset or liability.

Example 6: Adjustments to the Taxable Income of the Transferee

Company A and Company B are companies incorporated and resident in the UAE and both use the Gregorian calendar year (i.e. year ending 31 December) as their Financial Year and Tax Period.

Company A conducts Business in the UAE and has assets with a net book value of AED 20 million, of which AED 10 million relates to an Immovable Property with a net book value of AED 10 million. On 31 December 2024, Company A transfers its Business to Company B at Market Value of AED 30 million in exchange for shares issued by Company B. The Market Value of the Immovable Property at that date was AED 12 million. For Corporate Tax purposes, Company A elects to apply the Business Restructuring Relief. Accordingly, Company A is treated as transferring the assets at AED 20 million for Corporate Tax purposes and so will not include the gain of AED 10 million (i.e. 30 million - 20 million) in its Taxable Income for the Tax Period ending 31 December 2024.

In the Financial Statements of Company B, the Immovable Property is recorded as follows:
Tax Period
Opening net book value (in AED)
Depreciation (using straight line method over 10 years, in AED)
Closing net book value	(after depreciation, in
AED)
2025
12 million
1.2 million
10.8 million
2026
10.8 million
1.2 million
9.6 million
2027
9.6 million
1.2 million
8.4 million

Since the transfer is on a no gain or loss basis for Corporate Tax purposes, Company B is deemed to acquire the Immovable Property at its net book value. Accordingly, Company B must exclude any depreciation on the asset to the extent it relates to the gain that arose to Company A but was not taxed due to the application of Business Restructuring Relief.73





73 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


Thus, for Corporate Tax purposes, the tax treatment of depreciation recorded in the Financial Statements of Company B shall be as follows:
Tax Period
Depreciation as per Financial Statements
Depreciation	not
deductible	for
Corporate	Tax purposes
Depreciation allowed for Corporate Tax purposes
2025
1.2 million
1.2 million
Nil
2026
1.2 million
0.8 million
0.4 million
2027
1.2 million
Nil
1.2 million

If, in the 2027 Tax Period, Company B sells the Immovable Property to a third party, for the purposes of calculating its Taxable Income, Company B will include the gain of AED 2 million that arose to Company A on the transfer to Company B that has not been recognised previously for Corporate Tax purposes. It will also be entitled to a deduction for the depreciation adjustments of AED 1.2 million previously made in the Tax Period ending 31 December 2025 and AED 0.8 million made in the Tax Period ending 31 December 2026.74

Company B will need to make similar adjustments for all other assets and liabilities it has received as part of the transaction on which Business Restructuring Relief applied.

If there have been several transfers on a no gain or loss basis under Article 27, all the gains and losses in relation to those transfers would need to be included upon realisation, unless these amounts were already adjusted or included in the Taxable Income as a result of being clawed back.75 In addition, if depreciation, amortisation or other changes in the value of the transferred assets and liabilities were earlier excluded from the Taxable Income of the Transferee, such depreciation, amortisation or other changes in the value are included in the Taxable Income upon realisation.76

If a clawback under Article 27(6) of the Corporate Tax Law is triggered in relation to a no gain or loss transfer, this is treated as a realisation of the asset or liability and the resulting gain or loss should be included in the Taxable Income of the Transferor of the transaction for which the clawback was triggered in the Tax Period when the clawback is triggered.77 See Section 6 for consequences on clawback of Business Restructuring Relief.


74 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
75 Article 27(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.
76 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
77 Article 8(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


If there has been a previous transfer on a no gain or loss basis under Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, it is possible that a disposal will trigger a gain or loss that was previously not taken into account. In such cases, the net book value should be adjusted to such an amount that results in no gain or loss.78

Example 7: Effect of several transfers on a no gain or loss basis

Company A, Company B, Company C and Company D are companies incorporated and resident in the UAE and who all use the Gregorian calendar year (i.e. year ending 31 December) as their Financial Year and Tax Period.

Company A owns a Business which is transferred to Company B on 1 January 2025 in exchange for shares in a transaction on which Business Restructuring Relief is applied. On 1 January 2026, Company B transfers the Business to Company C in exchange for shares in a transaction on which Business Restructuring Relief is applied. Thereafter, on 1 January 2028, Company C sells the Business to a third party. Consequently, assets of the Business are also transferred multiple times.

Company A and Company B elect to apply Business Restructuring Relief in respect of transfers of the Business made by them (i.e. as Transferors). In their Financial Statements, Company B and Company C depreciate and amortise part of the assets received as part of the transactions on which Business Restructuring Relief applied. However, Company C does not elect to apply Business Restructuring Relief on the transfer of the Business to the third party.

Tax
Period
Impact in hands of Transferor
Impact in hands of Transferee




2025
On the transfer of the Business to Company B, Company A will be considered to have transferred the assets at net book value meaning that the gain or loss on transfer of the Business will not be included in
the Taxable Income of Company A.79
Company B will exclude the depreciation and amortisation, to the extent it relates to gains or losses that were not taken into account on the transfer of the Business.80



78 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
79 Article 27(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
80 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No 134 of 2023.



On the transfer of the Business from Company B to Company C, Company B will be considered to have transferred the assets at net book value meaning that the gain or loss on transfer of the Business will not be included in the Taxable Income of Company B.81
Company C will exclude the depreciation and amortisation, to the extent it relates to the gain that was not taken into account on the transfers.83



2026
Further, Company A will also not include the gain or loss on the transfer of the Business that was not previously taken into account, because the subsequent transfer on which Business Restructuring Relief applies is not treated as a realisation.82 The amount of gain or loss not taken into account is determined as the difference between the consideration included in the Financial Statements and the net book value of the assets and liabilities (after applicable depreciation
and amortisation).



2027
N/A
Company C will exclude the depreciation and amortisation, to the extent it relates to the remaining gain that was not taken into account on the
transfers.84


2028
The transfer of the Business by Company C to the third party does not trigger a clawback on the transfers that took place on 1
January 2025 and 1 January
The third party will recognise the assets and liabilities at Market Value as on the date of transfer.


81 Article 27(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
82 Articles 5(2) and 9(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
83 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.



2026 as this is not within two years of either Business Restructuring Relief.

However, this is a realisation event, meaning that any gain or loss not previously taken into account is included in Company C's Taxable Income for 2028.85 The amount to be included in Taxable Income upon transfer shall be calculated as the income on the disposal in the Financial Statements (disposal proceeds, reduced by the net book value in the Financial Statements); adjusted for the gains or losses not previously taken into account due to Business Restructuring Relief; and a depreciation and amortisation adjustment for amounts previously disallowed.
86


5.2. Value of shares or ownership interest received

Where a Business or independent part of a Business is transferred on a no gain or loss basis under Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law, the Transferor or shareholder(s) of the Transferor who hold at least 50% of the ownership interests directly or indirectly in the Transferor 87 shall treat the shares or other ownership interests received as having a value not exceeding the net book value of the assets transferred and any liabilities assumed, less the value of any other form of consideration received for Corporate Tax purposes.88 This means that for Corporate Tax purposes, the total value of the consideration received by the Transferor shall be treated as not exceeding the net book value of the Business or independent part of the Business being transferred. In addition, this value should be used to calculate any taxable gain or loss upon the sale of those received shares or ownership interests.

85 Article 9(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
86 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
87 Article 27(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
88 Article 27(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 8: Value of shares received by Transferor

Company A and Company B are companies incorporated and resident in the UAE and use the Gregorian calendar year as their Financial Year and Tax Period.

On 1 July 2024, Company A transfers all of its Business to Company B in exchange for shares in Company B with a nominal value of AED 6 million and cash payment of AED 0.5 million. The net book value of the assets and liabilities transferred was AED 6.5 million. The Market Value of the assets and liabilities was AED 10 million. Thus, the cash consideration did not exceed the lower of (i) the net book value of the assets and liabilities transferred, or (ii) 10% of the nominal value of the shares issued.

Company A elects to apply Business Restructuring Relief on the transfer.

Company A is required to record the shares in Company B for a value not exceeding the net book value of the assets and liabilities transferred, minus any other form of consideration received.89 The net book value of assets and liabilities was AED 6.5 million. Company A also received a cash payment of AED 0.5 million. As a result, Company A shall treat the shares as being received for a value of AED 6 million for Corporate Tax purposes, even if they are recorded at a different value in its Financial Statements.

If Business Restructuring Relief is applied on a transaction where the Taxable Person or Persons that are the Transferor cease to exist as contemplated in Article 27(1)(b) (for instance as a result of a legal merger), any Person surrendering shares or other ownership interests in exchange for new shares or other ownership interests shall treat the new shares or other ownership interests as having a value not exceeding the net book value of the shares or ownership interests surrendered, less the value of any other form of consideration received.90

5.3. Transfer of Tax Losses

Where a Business or independent part of a Business is transferred on a no gain or loss basis under Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, unutilised Tax Losses incurred by the Transferor in Tax Periods before the restructuring transaction, can be carried forward and are considered as Tax Losses of the Transferee,91 provided the


89 Article 27(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 90 Article 27(3)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 91 Article 27(3)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Transferee continues to conduct the same or a similar Business or Business Activity as the Transferor conducted before the restructuring transaction.92

This similarity is determined based on factors such as:93
* The Transferee uses some or all of the same assets that the Transferor used before the transfer.
* The Transferee does not make significant changes to the core identity or operations of the Business post-transfer.
* Any changes that have occurred should result from the development or exploitation of assets, services, processes, products, or methods that existed before the transfer.

This condition aims to ensure that Tax Losses incurred by the Transferor can only be carried forward if the Transferee genuinely continues the same or similar Business conducted by the Transferor prior to the transfer of the Business to the Transferee,94 rather than changing the nature of the Business immediately after the Business restructuring transaction. If the Business restructuring transaction is a transfer of an independent part of the Business, the similarity should be tested by reference to the independent part of the Business that was transferred.95

Unlike Tax Losses, Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law does not provide that unutilised Net Interest Expenditure can be transferred to the Transferee where Business Restructuring Relief applies.

5.4. Consequences of not meeting requirements or not electing for Business Restructuring Relief

Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law does not apply to all transfers of a Business between two Taxable Persons. If the conditions for a no gain or loss transfer are not met (see Section 4) or if the Transferor has not elected for the application of Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law (see Section 7.1), the transfer would be outside the scope of Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law. If such a transfer is between Related Parties, the transfer is a transaction that should meet the arm's length standard.96 This means the gain or loss resulting from the transfer should be determined based on the arm's length value of the assets or liabilities being transferred as part of the Business being transferred.


92 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
93 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
94 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
95 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
96 Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.


If a transfer of assets or liabilities is not between Related Parties, the arm's length standard does not apply as it is assumed that a transaction between two unrelated parties would be at arm's length. In such a case, the gain or loss on the transfer should be determined based on the standalone Financial Statements prepared for financial reporting purposes in accordance with the applicable Accounting Standards.97



















































97 Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.


6. Clawback of Business Restructuring Relief

Business Restructuring Relief shall not apply if any of the following circumstances occur within two years from the date of transfer:98
* The shares or other ownership interests in the Transferor or the Transferee are sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of, wholly or partially to a Person that is not a member of the Qualifying Group to which the relevant Taxable Persons belong.
* There is a subsequent transfer or disposal of the Business or the independent part of the Businesses transferred under Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

In such cases, Business Restructuring Relief will be clawed back and the transfer of the Business or the independent part of the Business shall be treated as having taken place at Market Value on the date of the transfer.99 The resulting gain or loss shall be included in the Taxable Income of the Transferor in the Tax Period in which either of the above circumstances arise.100

The following sections provide further detail on the circumstances that trigger the clawback and the consequences of the clawback.

6.1. Transfer of shares in the Transferor or Transferee

Business Restructuring Relief is clawed back if the shares or other ownership interests in the Transferor or Transferee are wholly or partially transferred within two years to a Person that is not in a Qualifying Group with the relevant Taxable Persons.101 This clawback applies only in respect of those shares or ownership interests that were issued by the Transferor or the Transferee as part of Business Restructuring Relief. In a Business restructuring transaction, it is uncommon for a Transferor to issue any shares or ownership interest, so it is expected to be uncommon that a transfer of shares or ownership interests in the Transferor would trigger the clawback. In case of a transfer of shares or ownership interests in the Transferee, the clawback would be triggered only if that transfer included shares or ownership interests in the Transferee that were issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief.









98 Article 27(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.
99 Article 27(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.
100 Article 8(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
101 Article 27(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.



Example 9: Clawback on transfer of shares in the Transferee

Company A, Company B and Company C are companies incorporated and resident in the UAE and who use the Gregorian calendar year as their Financial Year and Tax Period. Company B holds 100% of the shares in Company C.

On 1 July 2024, Company A transfers all of its Business to Company C in exchange for shares representing an ownership interest of 20% in Company C. The remaining 80% of the shares in Company C continue to be held by Company
B. Company A elects to apply Business Restructuring Relief on the transfer.

On 1 July 2025, Company B transfers all of the shares it owns in Company C to a third party.

Business Restructuring Relief would be clawed back if the shares in the Transferee that were issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief are wholly or partially transferred within two years to a Person that is not in a Qualifying Group with the relevant Taxable Persons.102 In this case, Company B transfers its shares in the Transferee to a third party. However, these shares were not issued as part of the Business Restructuring Relief. As a result, the clawback under Article 27(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law does not apply.

6.1.1. Situations where transfer of shares will trigger clawback of relief

The clawback can apply if the shares or other ownership interests in the Transferor or Transferee which are issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief are "sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of" within the relevant two-year period to a Person which does not form part of the Qualifying Group with the Person transferring shares or other ownership interests of the Transferor or Transferee, as the case may be.103 Examples where the clawback could be triggered include the following cases:
* sale of all shares in the Transferee to a party not part of a Qualifying Group with the selling shareholder(s),
* transfers as part of a liquidation or winding up where the Transferee ceases to exist,
* transfers as part of another transaction on which Business Restructuring Relief applies, if this involves a transfer between members who are not part of the same Qualifying Group.



102 Article 27(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
103 Article 27(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


The clawback applies on a transfer "in whole or part". Any transfer of shares in the Transferee which were issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief can be considered a transfer of either the whole or part of the shares. This means the transfer of a single share which was earlier issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief could trigger the clawback, even if the owners of the other shares in the Transferee remain unchanged.

It is possible that a shareholder in the Transferee also holds shares or other ownership interests in the Transferee which were not issued in consideration for a restructuring transaction to which a Business Restructuring Relief is applied. In such a case, the shareholder of the Transferee holds shares or other ownership interests in the Transferee both (a) as a consideration for a Business Restructuring Relief transaction and (b) unconnected to the Business Restructuring Relief transaction.
* If the shares are identifiable (for example, by serial numbers included in the share register), the clawback would trigger when the shares transferred are identified as the shares which were issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief.
* However, where it is not practically possible to identify which shares are transferred by the shareholder, the shareholder is deemed to have transferred or sold the shares it held the longest first (a "first in first out" approach).

This also applies to transfers of shares or other ownership interests issued by another Person other than the Transferee as a result of Article 27(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.

It is possible that the Transferor or Transferee will have shareholders who do not meet the conditions to be part of any Qualifying Group. This can be the case if the shareholder is an individual, an Exempt Person, a Qualifying Free Zone Person or a company incorporated and managed outside the UAE without a Permanent Establishment in the UAE. 104 It can also apply to shareholders with a different Financial Year end or who apply a different Accounting Standard.105 In such cases, any transfer of the shares they hold in the Transferor or Transferee, which were issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief, can trigger the clawback, if done in the two years after a transaction on which Business Restructuring Relief was applied. This is because it is not possible for those shareholders to transfer shares between members of a Qualifying Group.









104 Article 26(2)(a), (b), (c) and (d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
105 Article 26(2)(e) and (f) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 10: Clawback on transfer of shares by an Exempt Person








Company A, Company B, Company C and Company D are companies incorporated and resident in the UAE and who all use the Gregorian calendar year as their Financial Year and Tax Period. Company A is an Exempt Person as a Government Controlled Entity. Before 1 July 2024, Company A held 100% of the shares in Company B, Company C and Company D.

On 1 July 2024, Company B enters into a legal merger in which it transfers all of its Business to Company C, Company C issues additional shares to Company A and Company B ceases to exist. Company B elects to apply Business Restructuring Relief on the merger.

On 1 July 2025, Company A transfers 100% of its shares in Company C to Company D.

Business Restructuring Relief would be clawed back if the shares in the Transferee which were issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief are wholly or partially transferred within two years to a Person that is not in a Qualifying Group with the Person who is transferring the Transferee's shares.106

In this case, Company A transfers the shares in the Transferee to Company D. Although Company A holds 100% of the shares in Company D, Company A is not in a Qualifying Group with Company D, as it is an Exempt Person. As a result, the clawback under Article 27(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law is triggered on 1 July 2025.

Business Restructuring Relief can also be applied where consideration for transfer of the Business or an independent part of the Business is issued or granted by a

106 Article 27(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


shareholder of the Transferee who directly or indirectly holds at least 50% of the shares of the Transferee.107 In such cases, the provisions of Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law apply on such shares as well, which means the clawback also applies on such shares.108




107 Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
108 Article 27(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.




6.1.2. Clawback in the context of the transfer of shares

Business Restructuring Relief is not clawed back where shares or ownership interests of the Transferor or Transferee, which were issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief, are transferred within a Qualifying Group of which the Person who is transferring the shares or ownership interests is a member.111

In case of a transfer of shares in the Transferor which were issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief, the relevant Qualifying Group should include the shareholder that transfers the shares in the Transferor and the Person who receives the shares in the Transferor. Similarly, in case of a transfer of shares in the Transferee which were issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief, the relevant Qualifying Group should include the shareholder that transfers the shares in the Transferee and the Person who receives the shares in the Transferee. In these situations, there is no requirement that the Transferor or Transferee are in a Qualifying Group with the Person who is transferring or receiving the shares.

Whether the relevant Taxable Persons are in a Qualifying Group is tested at the time the shares in the Transferor or Transferee are being transferred. There is no requirement that the Person who receives the shares was in a Qualifying Group at the time of the original Business restructuring nor is there any requirement to remain in a Qualifying Group after the transfer.

There is also no general requirement for the Transferor or Transferee to be or remain in a Qualifying Group with its shareholder(s) for the two-year period, unless the shares


or other ownership rights in the Transferor or Transferee which were issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief are transferred. For instance, the shareholders of the Transferor or Transferee might each hold shares or ownership interests of less than 75% after the Business restructuring transaction, or the shareholders might fail to meet any of the other conditions for being in a Qualifying Group.112 In such cases, it can still be possible to apply Business Restructuring Relief provided the shares in the Transferor or Transferee which were issued as part of Business Restructuring Relief are not transferred within two years. Further, if within two years from the date of the Business restructuring transaction, the shareholder of the Transferor or Transferee transfers the shares or ownership interest of the Transferor or Transferee to an entity which is a member of the Qualifying Group with the shareholder, the clawback would not be triggered.








Company B and Company C. Company B holds 100% of the shares in Company D.

In the 2024 Tax Period, the following transactions take place:


Date
Description

1 July 2024
Company B transfers an independent part of its Business to Company D in exchange for additional shares in Company D. Company B elects to apply Business Restructuring Relief on the
transaction

1 August
2024
Company B enters into a legal merger in which it transfers all of its Business to Company C (including the shares in Company D), Company C issues additional shares to Company A and Company B ceases to exist. Company B elects to apply
Business Restructuring Relief on the merger.
1 September
2024
Company A transfers 100% of its shares in Company C to a third
party

Business Restructuring Relief can be clawed back if the shares in the Transferee are wholly or partially transferred within two years to a Person that is not in a Qualifying Group with the relevant Taxable Persons (see below).115

Date
Event
Is a clawback triggered?

Upon merger of
At that date, Company B and Company C are

Company	B
in a Qualifying Group. As a result, the

into	Company
clawback is not triggered on the Business
1 August
2024
C, Company B transfers	the
shares	in	the
restructuring that took place on 1 July 2024

Transferee


(Company D) to


Company C



Company	C	is	not	the	Transferor	or


1 September
2024
Company A transfers 100% of its shares in Company C to a third party
Transferee for the restructuring on 1 July 2024 (between Company B and Company D) on which Business Restructuring Relief applied. Therefore, the clawback is not triggered in relation to that Business Restructuring Relief.




However, Company C is the Transferee for the restructuring on 1 August 2024 on which Business Restructuring Relief applied. As Company A and Company C are not in a Qualifying Group with the third party, the clawback is triggered for that Business Restructuring Relief, meaning the Business is treated as being transferred at Market Value on 1 August 2024.

The clawback under Article 27(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law only applies to transfers of shares or other ownership interests in the Transferor or the Transferee which were issued or transferred in exchange under Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. It does not apply in relation to indirect transfers of ownership in the Transferor or Transferee, provided those shares were not issued or transferred pursuant to the application of Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. In other words, if Business Restructuring Relief was applied on a transfer, the mere fact that there was an indirect change of ownership does not mean the clawback is triggered.

6.2. Subsequent transfer of Business

Business Restructuring Relief is clawed back if within two years, there is a subsequent transfer or disposal of the Business or the independent part of the Business.116 This clawback applies in relation to a transfer of the Business or the independent part of the Business that was transferred under Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. It does not apply on transfers of any other parts of the Business held by the Transferee.

The clawback applies on a transfer or disposal of the Business, regardless of the manner in which it is transferred. As a result, it also applies in the following situations:
* transfers of Business within the Tax Group,
* transfers within a Qualifying Group upon which Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law is applied,
* transfers as part of a liquidation or winding up, or
* transfers as part of another transaction on which Business Restructuring Relief applies.


Example 15: Transferee ceases to exist










Company A, Company B, Company C and Company D are companies incorporated and resident in the UAE and who all use the Gregorian calendar year as their Financial Year and Tax Period. Company A holds 100% of the shares in Company B, Company C and Company D.

On 1 July 2024, Company B enters into a legal merger with Company C under which Company B transfers its entire Business to Company C, Company C issues additional shares to Company A and Company B ceases to exist. Company B elects to apply Business Restructuring Relief on the transfer.

On 1 September 2024, Company C enters into a legal merger with Company D under which Company C transfers its entire Business to Company D (including the Business received from Company B), Company D issues additional shares to Company A and Company C ceases to exist. Company C elects to apply Business Restructuring Relief on the transfer.

Business Restructuring Relief would be clawed back if there is a subsequent transfer or disposal of the Business within two years.117 In this case, the Business transferred by Company B in the merger on 1 July 2024 is transferred by Company C in another merger on 1 September 2024. Because the transfer occurs within two years, the clawback under Article 27(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law applies.

The clawback also applies if a Transferee transfers certain assets and liabilities belonging to the Business it has received, in case those assets and liabilities can be regarded as an independent part of a Business.


Example 16: Transferee transfers an independent part of the Business

Company A and Company B are companies incorporated and resident in the UAE and who use the Gregorian calendar year as their Financial Year and Tax Period.

Company A's Business is the sale of clothes, bags and shoes. Each segment can be regarded as an independent part of the Business of Company A.

Company B is a third-party company which also sells branded shoes and bags.

On 1 July 2024, Company A transfers its Business of selling bags and shoes to Company B in exchange for shares of Company B. Company A elects to apply Business Restructuring Relief on the transfer.

On 1 December 2024, Company B disposes of the sale of bags Business to a third party, which includes the sale of bags Business that it had received from Company A.

Business Restructuring Relief would be clawed back if there is a subsequent transfer or disposal of an independent part of the Business received within two years.118 In this case, the independent parts of the Business that were transferred to Company B on 1 July 2024 included the sale of bags Business. On 1 December 2024, Company B transferred that Business to a third party. This triggers the clawback in full, even though Company B retained one of the independent parts of the Business it had received.

6.2.1. Situations where Business Restructuring Relief is not clawed back

It is common for a Transferee to make operational changes to a Business after a Business restructuring transaction. For instance, a Transferee can make operational changes by consolidating functions and avoid duplication of work between Transferee's existing Business and newly acquired Business. Consolidation of functions may lead to disposal of certain assets. For example, a Transferor may have conducted the procurement of suppliers of the Business internally. Subsequently, the Transferee transfers the procurement function to a third-party or a group entity to align it with its Business practice. Another example is that the Transferee uses a different software for accounting and billing as compared to the Transferor, and so the Transferee may cancel the software licence used by the Transferor.

If no contracts, functions, assets or liabilities are transferred within two years of a restructuring transaction on which Business Restructuring Relief applied as part of a


further restructuring, there is unlikely to be a transfer of an independent part of the Business.

A Transferee may transfer certain assets or liabilities belonging to the Business it received to align it with its Business strategy. For example, the Transferee may enter into sale and lease back contracts for certain acquired assets, sell the debtors under receivable financing arrangements or sell equipment (acquired as part of Business restructuring) if it already has similar equipment performing the same function. These transfers would only trigger the clawback if the assets or liabilities that are subsequently transferred qualify as an independent part of a Business and the subsequent transfer was within two years of a reorganisation to which Business Restructuring Relief applied.119

6.3. Consequences of the clawback

6.3.1. Consequences in hands of the Transferor

If either of the clawbacks outlined in Article 27(6) of the Corporate Tax Law applies, the transfer of the Business or an independent part of the Business will be treated as having taken place at Market Value at the date of the transfer.120 The gain or loss on transfer shall be included in the Taxable Income of the Transferor in the Tax Period in which the clawback was triggered.121

The gain or loss on the transfer of the Business or an independent part of the Business will be equal to the Market Value of assets and liabilities transferred as part of the transfer of such Business at the date of the transfer, less the net book value of those assets or liabilities as at the date of the transfer. While calculating the gain or loss on transfer, the Market Value of assets and liabilities as on the date of the Business restructuring will need to be considered, even if this Market Value is different on the date of the clawback being triggered. In addition, the net book value of the assets or liabilities as at the date of original transfer will be the amount determined as per Article 27(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law (see Section 5.1.1).

Generally, on clawback of the relief, a gain or loss on subsequent transfer shall be included in the Taxable Income of the Transferor. However, if the Transferor has ceased to be a Taxable Person before the Tax Period in which the clawback is triggered or is a natural person, the gain or loss shall instead be included in the Taxable Income of the Transferee in that Tax Period.122


119 Article 27(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
120 Article 27(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.
121 Article 8(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
122 Article 8(2) and (3) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


Example 17: Subsequent transfer of Business within Qualifying Group






	


Company A, Company B and Company C are companies incorporated and resident in the UAE and who use the Gregorian calendar year as their Financial Year and Tax Period. Company A holds 100% of the shares in both Company B and Company C.

On 1 January 2025, Company B merges into Company A, meaning it transfers its Business to Company A and Company A issues additional shares to its existing shareholders. Company B elects to apply Business Restructuring Relief on the transfer. The combined cost base of the assets and liabilities transferred on that date was AED 10 million. The combined Market Value of the assets and liabilities transferred on that date was AED 20 million.

On 1 February 2026, Company A transfers its Business to Company C for the combined cost base of AED 20 million. Company A elects to apply Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law on the transfer. The combined Market Value of the assets and liabilities transferred on that date was AED 25 million.

Date
Description
Combined Net book value of assets       and
liabilities     (in
AED)
Market Value of assets	and
liabilities	(in AED)
1	January 2025
Transfer		of	Business when	Company	B
merges into Company A
AED 10 million
AED 20 million


1 February 2026
Transfer of Business by
Company	A	to Company C
AED 20 million
AED 25 million

Business Restructuring Relief would be clawed back if there is a subsequent transfer or disposal of an independent part of the Business received within two years from the date of original transfer.123

The Business acquired from Company B is subsequently transferred by Company A to Company C within two years. Therefore, the clawback is triggered. As outlined above, any transfer of an independent part of a Business can trigger a clawback and the fact that it is transferred to a member of the Qualifying Group does not prevent the trigger of the clawback. As a result, the Business will be treated as transferred at Market Value on the date of the transaction on which Business Restructuring Relief was applied. The difference between the Market Value (AED 20 million) and the cost base (AED 10 million) on 1 January 2025 results in a gain of AED 10 million, which should be included in the Taxable Income of Company A (i.e. the Transferee since the Transferor (Company B) has ceased to exist).124 Further, Company A will include the AED 10 million in the Taxable Income of the Tax Period ending 31 December 2026 i.e. the year in which the clawback is triggered.125

6.3.2. Consequences in hands of the Transferee

If the clawback applies, the Transferee will reverse any depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of the assets and liabilities that has previously been adjusted by the Transferee. 126 In addition, after the clawback has been triggered, the Transferee will no longer make the adjustments required to Accounting Income for determining Taxable Income under Article 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023 in relation to Business Restructuring Relief.127 However, if the transfer was recorded in the Financial Statements at a value that differs from the Market Value, the Transferee will be required to make adjustments under Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.128





123 Article 27(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
124 Article 8(2) and (3) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
125 Article 8(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023. 126 Article 8(4)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023. 127 Article 8(4)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023. 128 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


Example 18: Reversal of elimination of depreciation and amortisation after clawback

Company A and Company B are companies incorporated and resident in the UAE and who use the Gregorian calendar year as their Financial Year and Tax Period.

On 1 January 2025, Company A transfers its Business to Company B in exchange for shares in Company B. Company A elects to apply Business Restructuring Relief on the transfer. The combined net book value of the assets and liabilities transferred on that date in Company A's Financial Statements was AED 10 million. The combined Market Value of the assets and liabilities transferred on that date was AED 25 million.

In the Financial Statements of Company B, the transfer of the Business is reported at Market Value. Company B records depreciation and amortisation in respect of that Business as follows:

Financial Year
2025
2026
Depreciation and amortisation in millions (in
Financial Statements)
(0.5)
(0.5)
(Note the 0.5 million is an illustrative figure)

After depreciation and amortisation in 2025 and 2026, the net assets of the Business are reported at AED 24 million which is higher than the net book value at the time of transfer of AED 10 million.

In each of 2025 and 2026 an amount of AED 0.5 million depreciation and amortisation relates to the gain that was not taxed because of the application of Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. Therefore, Company B adds back the AED
0.5 million when calculating its Taxable Income for 2025.129

On 1 July 2026, Company A sells its shares in Company B to a third party.

Business Restructuring Relief would be clawed back if the shares in the Transferee are wholly or partially transferred within two years to a Person that is not in a Qualifying Group with the relevant Taxable Persons. 130 In this case, Company A, Company B and the third party are not in a Qualifying Group. Therefore, the clawback is triggered by the sale of the shares in Company B.




129 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
130 Article 27(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.














































131 Article 8(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


7. Compliance requirements

7.1. Election by Transferor

The Transferor must make an election to apply the provisions of Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law to a restructuring transaction that meets the specified conditions.

Unlike the election for Qualifying Group Relief under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law which applies to all of a Transferor's subsequent transfers, an election for Business Restructuring Relief is required by the Transferor for each applicable Business restructuring transaction meeting the conditions for relief. This election does not apply to any future restructuring transactions performed by the Transferor or Transferee.

7.2. Record keeping

Both the Transferor and the Transferee are required to maintain a record of the agreement to transfer the asset or liability at the value prescribed under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law. 132 Additionally, they must document the requirements necessary for making any adjustments as prescribed under the relevant Ministerial Decision governing the general rules for determining Taxable Income. 133 This comprehensive record-keeping is crucial to ensure compliance with the regulatory framework.

























132 Article 9 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
133 Article 9 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


8. Interaction of Business Restructuring Relief with other parts of Corporate Tax Law
8.1. Qualifying Group Relief

Where all of the following conditions are met, a transaction could be eligible for Business Restructuring Relief as well as Qualifying Group Relief:
* a Transferor transfers its Business or independent part of Business to a Transferee,134
* the Transferor continues to exist after the transfer,135
* the consideration for transfer is paid in the form of shares or ownership interests of the Transferee or a Person that has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 50% in the Transferee,136 and
* the Transferor and Transferee are members of a Qualifying Group.137

The above is relevant in instances where the Transferor electing for Business Restructuring Relief has previously elected for Qualifying Group Relief on each asset and liability (that is held on capital account). Accordingly, Qualifying Group Relief is also applicable on such assets and liabilities which are transferred as part of the Business restructuring. If an election has been made for Qualifying Group Relief or Business Restructuring Relief, the transaction will be subject to the condition of that elected relief. This also means that if a clawback is triggered, the relief would be clawed back even if the conditions for a different relief would have been met and would not have resulted in a clawback being triggered.138 Therefore, the clawback provisions are considered in relation to each specific election made by the Taxable Person.

If a Transferor has elected for Qualifying Group Relief and it also makes an election for Business Restructuring Relief in respect of a specific business restructuring, the no gain or loss treatment is clawed back, if a clawback is triggered by either of the reliefs. For example, if the Transferor and the Transferee cease to be in a Qualifying Group within two years of Qualifying Group Relief, the no gain or loss treatment would be clawed back, even if no clawback is triggered for Business Restructuring Relief.139 Similarly, if the Transferee transfers an independent part of the Business it has received within two years of Business Restructuring Relief, the no gain or loss treatment would be clawed back on any Business or independent part of the Business

134 Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 135 Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 136 Article 27(6)(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
137 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023. 138 Articles 26(5) and 27(7) of the Corporate Tax Law. 139 Article 26(4)(b) and (5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


transferred, even if no clawback is triggered for Qualifying Group Relief.140 Once a clawback has been triggered, the no gain or loss treatment no longer applies, which also means that any subsequent events would no longer trigger an additional clawback.


8.2. Realisation basis

A Taxable Person that prepares its Financial Statements on an accrual basis may elect to take into account gains and losses on a realisation basis if the relevant conditions are met.141 The election can apply on either (a) all unrealised accounting gains and losses,142 or (b) only unrealised gains and losses in relation to those assets and liabilities held on the Taxable Person's capital account.143 If an election is made, the Taxable Person will make adjustments to ensure the Taxable Income is calculated as if the Financial Statements were prepared on a realisation basis.144 A Taxable Person will decide in its first Tax Period whether to make an election and the decision


140 Article 27(6)(b) and (7) of the Corporate Tax Law.
141 Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 142 Article 20(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 143 Article 20(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
144 Article 2(3) and (4) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


is irrevocable, except under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to approval by the FTA.145

A no gain or loss transfer of assets or liabilities under Business Restructuring Relief shall not be considered as a realisation of the assets or liabilities.146

Where a Transferee has received assets and liabilities on a no gain or loss basis under Business Restructuring Relief, the Taxable Income of the Transferee would be determined by making the adjustments outlined in Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023 (see Section 5.1.2).147 If the Transferee has elected for the realisation basis under Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax Law, the depreciation, amortisation or other change in value adjusted in previous Tax Period(s) and any gain or loss that was not taken into account due to Business Restructuring Relief would be taken into account at realisation.148

8.3. Transitional relief

A Taxable Person's opening balance sheet for Corporate Tax purposes is the closing balance sheet prepared for financial reporting purposes under applicable accounting standards on the last day of the Financial Year that ends immediately before its first Tax Period commences.149 Further, adjustments can be made to the Taxable Income of a Taxable Person in respect of gains recognised on Immovable Property, Intangible Assets and Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities owned prior to the Taxable Person's first Tax Period.150

If an asset or liability is transferred on a no gain or loss basis as a result of Business Restructuring Relief, the transfer is not a disposal for the purposes of the transitional relief and the ownership period of the asset or liability is considered to continue and include the ownership period of the Transferee. This is because the effect of Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law is that the Transferee is seen to continue the Business and Business Activities of the Transferor, which includes a continuation of the ownership of the assets and liabilities of the Business. However, if the clawback provisions of Article 27(6) of the Corporate Tax Law apply, the asset or liability is considered disposed of in the Tax Period when the transfer of Business took place. However, since upon clawback of relief, the gain or loss is taxable in the Tax Period of the clawback event, the transitional relief should be claimed in the Tax Period when


145 Article 8(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
146 Article 9(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
147 Articles 3, 4 and 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
148 Articles 4(2) and 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
149 Article 61(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
150 Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023


clawback is triggered. There is no need to reopen the earlier Tax Period when the original transfer of Business took place.

In addition, if a Taxable Person acquired an asset or liability as part of a Business restructuring before Corporate Tax entered into effect, the Taxable Person is considered to own the asset as of the date of the Business restructuring transaction. However, for purposes of the transitional rules, if such transfer would have qualified as a no gain no loss transfer within a Qualifying Group, then the date of ownership may be different as per Article 5(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision 120 of 2023.151 This is because Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law cannot be applied to Business restructurings before the first Tax Period and the transitional rules do not extend the ownership period to include ownership by a different Taxable Person for Business restructurings that would fall within Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law, subject to the exception referred to above.







































151 Article 5(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023


9. Updates and amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
April 2024
* First version

	













Exempt Income: Dividends and Participation Exemption
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGEXI1

October 2023


Contents
1. Glossary	4
2. Introduction	9
Overview	9
Purpose of this guide	9
Who should read this guide?	9
How to use this guide	10
Legislative references	10
Status of this guide	11
3. Dividends and other profit distributions	12
What is a Dividend?	12
3.1.1. Overview	12
3.1.2. Ordinary Dividend	13
3.1.3. Payments that do not qualify as a Dividend	14
3.1.4. Dividend in kind	15
3.1.5. Other distributions	15
3.1.6. Non-arm's length: constructive Dividend	17
Taxation of Dividends and other profit distributions	17
3.2.1. Personal Investment income (natural person only)	17
3.2.2. Dividend from a Resident Person	18
3.2.3. Foreign Dividends	18
4. Participation Exemption: overview	20
Introduction	20
Definition of Participating Interest	20
Exempt Income and losses	21
Automatic exemption: no election required	22
Availability of exemption to both Resident Person and Non-Resident Person	22
5. Participation Exemption: definition of Participating Interest	23
Ownership interest test	25
5.1.1. What is an ownership interest?	25
5.1.2. Debt instruments issued by the Participation	26
5.1.3. Options	27
5.1.4. Owner of ownership interests	27

Minimum ownership test	28
5.2.1. Computation of percentage ownership	28
5.2.2. Aggregation of Qualifying Group holdings	29
5.2.3. Falling below the 5% ownership threshold	29
Holding period test	31
5.3.1. Intention to hold Participating Interest for at least 12 months	31
5.3.2. Different ownerships interests in a juridical person held for different periods . 32
5.3.3. Transfer of ownership interest in case of business restructuring	33
5.3.4. Required holding period exceptions	33
Minimum acquisition cost test	34
5.4.1. Aggregation of acquisition costs	35
5.4.2. Computation of acquisition cost	36
Subject to tax test	38
5.5.1. Subject to Corporate Tax or similar	38
5.5.2. Foreign tax rate of at least 9%	40
Exceptions to the subject to tax test	41
5.6.1. Qualifying Free Zone Persons and Exempt Persons	41
5.6.2. Holding companies	42
5.6.3. Small Business Relief	45
Entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds test	46
Asset test	47
6. Participation Exemption: Exempt Income and loss	50
Dividends and other profit distribution	50
6.1.1. Tax deductible Dividends: Participation Exemption not available	51
Capital gains or losses	51
6.2.1. General	51
6.2.2. Costs of the disposal	52
6.2.3. Deferred consideration and other changes in proceeds	52
6.2.4. Meaning of disposal	53
6.2.5. Liquidation	54
6.2.6. Interaction with other reliefs: transfers within a Qualifying Group and Business Restructuring Relief	56
6.2.7. Interaction with the Tax Group	56
Foreign exchange gains or losses in relation to Participating Interest	56
6.3.1. Increase or decrease in value of Participating Interest due to exchange rate fluctuation	57

Impairment gains or losses	58
6.4.1. Deductible impairment loss restricts the availability of the Participation Exemption	58
6.4.2. Impairment loss on loan receivable from a Participation	60
6.4.3. Reversal of impairment loss which has restricted the availability of the Participation Exemption	61
Interplay between Participation Exemption and Foreign Permanent Establishment Exemption	61
6.5.1. Impact of Foreign Permanent Establishment Tax Losses	62
7. Expenditure related to Exempt Income	63
Related expenditure	63
Expenditure in relation to a Participating Interest	64
7.2.1. Expenditure in relation to acquisition and disposal of a Participating Interest . 64
7.2.2. Expenditure in relation to a failed acquisition of a Participating Interest	64
7.2.3. Other expenditure in relation to a Participating Interest	65
Expenditure in relation to short-term investment in a juridical person that is a Resident Person	65
Interest expense	66
8. Tax Groups	67
Income from a Participating Interest within a Tax Group	67
Income from a Participating Interest outside a Tax Group	67
9. Updates and Amendments	71

1. Glossary

Accounting Standards: The accounting standards specified in Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.

Accrual Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income when earned and expenditure when incurred.

AED: The United Arab Emirates dirham.

Authority: Federal Tax Authority.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business Restructuring Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for business restructuring transactions, available under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No.133 of 2023.

Cash Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income and expenditure when cash payments are received and paid.

Connected Person: Any Person affiliated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 36(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses and any of its amendments.

Dividend: Any payments or distributions that are declared or paid on or in respect of shares or other rights participating in the profits of the issuer of such shares or rights which do not constitute a return on capital or a return on debt claims, whether such payments or distributions are in cash, securities, or other properties, and whether payable out of profits or retained earnings or from any account or legal reserve or from capital reserve or revenue. This will include any payment or benefit which in substance or effect constitutes a distribution of profits made in connection with the acquisition or


redemption or cancellation of shares or termination of other ownership interests or rights or any transaction or arrangement with a Related Party or Connected Person which does not comply with Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Double Taxation Agreement: An international signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Exempt Income: Any income exempt from Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Exempt Person: A Person exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.

Financial Year: The Gregorian calendar year, or the twelve-month period for which the Taxable Person prepares Financial Statements.

Foreign Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence outside the UAE of a Resident Person that is determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed in Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established, or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule: The limitation provided under Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law.

IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.

Interest: Any amount accrued or paid for the use of money or credit, including discounts, premiums and profit paid in respect of an Islamic Financial Instrument and


other payments economically equivalent to interest, and any other amounts incurred in connection with the raising of finance, excluding payments of the principal amount.

Islamic Financial Instrument: A financial instrument which is in compliance with Sharia principles.

Licence: A document issued by a Licensing Authority under which a Business or Business Activity is conducted in the UAE.

Licensing Authority: The competent authority concerned with licensing or authorising a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.

Membership and Partner interests: The equity interests owned by a member or a partner in the juridical person, which entitles the member or the partner to a share of the profits, determined with reference to the member's or the partner's capital contribution, and which may be transferred to others.

Membership or Partnership Capital: The capital paid to a juridical person where the paid capital is divided into membership or partnership interests by a Person in order to be a member or partner and have the rights of membership or partnership in that juridical person.

Net Interest Expenditure: The Interest expenditure amount that is in excess of the Interest income amount as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Ordinary Shares: The category of capital stock or equivalent ownership interest, which gives its owner, on a share-by-share basis, equal entitlement to voting rights, profits, and liquidation proceeds.

Parent Company: A Resident Person that can make an application to the FTA to form a Tax Group with one or more Subsidiaries in accordance with Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participating Interest: An ownership interest in the shares or capital of a juridical person that meets the conditions referred to in Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.



Participation: The juridical person in which the Participating Interest is held.

Participation Exemption: An exemption from Corporate Tax for income from a Participating Interest, available under Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No.116 of 2023.

Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.

Personal Investment: Investment activity that a natural person conducts for their personal account that is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022 Issuing the Commercial Transactions Law.

Preferred Shares: The category of capital stock or equity interest which gives its owner priority entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds ahead of owners of Ordinary Shares.

Qualifying Free Zone Person: A Free Zone Person that meets the conditions of Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law and is subject to Corporate Tax under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Group: Two or more Taxable Persons that meet the conditions of Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Redeemable Shares: The category of capital stock or equity interest which the juridical person issuing this instrument has agreed to redeem or buy back from the owner of this instrument at a future date or after a specific event, for a predetermined amount or with reference to a predetermined amount.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.


Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief.

State Sourced Income: Income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE as specified in Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Subsidiary: A Resident Person in which the share capital or Membership or Partnership Capital, as applicable, is held by a Parent Company, in accordance with Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Group: Two or more Taxable Persons treated as a single Taxable Person according to the conditions of Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Loss: Any negative Taxable Income as calculated under the Corporate Tax Law for a given Tax Period.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

Turnover: The gross amount of income derived during a Gregorian calendar year.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.


2. Introduction

Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was signed on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance to Taxable Persons, helping them to understand the exemptions in the Corporate Tax Law for Dividends and other profit distributions, such as the Participation Exemption. The Participation Exemption permits certain income, such as Dividends and capital gains, to be exempt from Corporate Tax, where a Taxable Person holds a significant, long-term ownership interest in a juridical person. This guide explains some of the terms and conditions in the Corporate Tax Law, and covers the following:

* How Dividends and other profit distributions are defined;
* Which income (and related expenditure) from a Participation is exempt;
* Who is eligible for the exemption;
* How the Participation Exemption operates; and
* What are the related implications in terms of Tax Groups.

This guide does not cover Unincorporated Partnerships.

Who should read this guide?

This guide should be read by Taxable Persons who receive Dividends from a Resident juridical person, and income or gains from a Participating Interest. A Taxable Person includes both juridical persons and natural persons where the income is not their Personal Investment income.1 This guide needs to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.


1 Article 2(2)(b) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.



How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Dividends and Participation Exemption apply. The examples in this guide:
- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:

* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 on Specifying the Categories of Businesses or Business Activities Conducted by a Resident or Non-Resident Natural Person that are Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023 on the Participation Exemption for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023"; and


* FTA Decision No. 13 of 2023 on Determination of Conditions for Conversion of Amounts Quantified in a Currency other than the United Arab Emirates Dirham for the Purposes of the Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 13 of 2023".

Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the provisions relating to the Corporate Tax regime in the UAE. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. Dividends and other profit distributions

Under the Corporate Tax Law, Dividends and other profit distributions received from a juridical person that is a Resident Person are exempt with no further conditions.2 Dividends and other profit distributions received from a foreign juridical person are exempt under the Participation Exemption, provided the relevant conditions are satisfied.3

The purpose of the exemption from Corporate Tax is to prevent Dividends and other profit distributions from potentially being subject to double taxation.

What is a Dividend?

3.1.1. Overview

A Dividend is not defined in the Corporate Tax Law. However, Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023 provides a definition of "Dividend". While the Ministerial Decision is issued specifically in relation to the Participation Exemption, the FTA will apply the same definition to Dividends from a juridical person that is a Resident Person under Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

The definition of a Dividend includes a number of important concepts listed below, each of which will be addressed separately:

* Ordinary Dividend: Any payment or distribution that is declared or paid on or in respect of shares or other rights to participate in the profits of the issuer of such shares or rights, payable out of profits or retained earnings or from any account or legal reserve or from capital reserve or revenue (see Section 3.1.2).
* Dividend in kind: Dividend in kind includes stock dividends, bonus shares (for example scrip dividends), and other forms of actual or constructive profit distributions. Thus, a Dividend can take the form of cash, securities, or other property or assets (see Section 3.1.4).
* Other distributions: Any payment or benefit made in connection with the acquisition of shares by the issuing entity, or redemption or cancellation of shares or termination of other ownership interests or rights which in substance constitutes a distribution of profit will be treated as a Dividend (see Section 3.1.5).
* Non-arm's length payments: Any payment or benefit that arises to a Related Party or Connected Person (who is a shareholder) as a result of a transaction or arrangement which does not comply with the arm's length principle will constitute


2 Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
3 Article 22(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


a distribution of profit in substance and accordingly, qualify as a Dividend, to the extent to which it is not at arm's length (see Section 3.1.6).


3.1.2. Ordinary Dividend

This refers to a payment or distribution that is declared or paid in respect of shares or other rights to participate in the profits of the issuer.

3.1.2.1. What is a share?

The term "share" refers to a unit of ownership in a company which may entitle the holder to a number of rights including the right to vote, the right to participate in a distribution of the company's profits, and the right to a return on the company's capital. The particular rights attaching to a share will depend on the constitutional documents of the company.

The term includes all types of shares issued by a company which carry a right to participate in the company's profits, for example Ordinary Shares, Preferred Shares, Redeemable Shares, non-voting shares, bearer shares, registered shares, etc.

The instruments that are recognised as share capital and the rights attaching to shares are usually determined by the terms under which they are issued within the framework of the company law of the jurisdiction in which the company is incorporated.

For the application of the Participation Exemption, shares or similar interests shall be treated as ownership interests only if the Accounting Standards applied by the Person owning them treats those instruments as equity instruments4 (see Section 5.1.1).

3.1.2.2. Other rights to participate in profits

"Other rights to participate in profits" can cover instruments (other than shares) issued by entities, which grant holders the right to participate in the relevant entity's profits. This concept makes provision for distribution of profits of other entities which are juridical persons, but are not companies, to also benefit from the exemptions under Article 22 of the Corporate Tax Law, provided all other requirements are met. For example, a member's interest in an incorporated partnership or units of a trust where such entities are treated as a separate legal person according to the law under which they are incorporated.




4 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


"Other rights to participate in profits" also includes instruments such as Membership and Partner Interests as well as Islamic Financial Instruments referred to in Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.

3.1.2.3. "In respect of" shares or rights to participate in profits

The phrase "in respect of" as used in the definition of Dividend, is the reason something is done or a benefit is granted to a Person, in their capacity as a shareholder or holder of the right to profits.


3.1.2.4. Profits out of which Dividends are distributed

Subject to applicable governing corporate laws and regulations, a Dividend can be paid out of current year profits or retained earnings, or from any account or legal reserve, or from capital reserves or revenue. This does not affect the treatment for Corporate Tax purposes.

Profits available for distribution (i.e. distributable profits) may be determined from the Financial Statements or the notes thereto. For Corporate Tax purposes, it does not matter whether distributions are made out of current period profits, or those of earlier periods.

3.1.3. Payments that do not qualify as a Dividend

As defined, a return on debt-claims does not qualify as a Dividend. Accordingly, income from convertible debentures or bonds cannot be considered a Dividend, until and unless the instruments are actually converted into shares.

Some debt-claims, such as bonds and debentures, carry an indirect right to participate in a debtor's profits. Generally, income from such debt-claims does not qualify as a Dividend if the terms of the arrangement evidence a loan arrangement, for example, where loans merely carry a right to Interest dependent or contingent, to some limited extent, on the profits made by the debtor but do not have any other characteristics of a share or other form of ownership interest in a juridical person.


However, Interest on a loan may qualify as a Dividend insofar as the lender effectively shares the risks run by the company, i.e. when repayment depends largely on the success or otherwise of the company's Business and the loan is therefore classified as equity under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person. The question as to whether the lender shares the risks run by the company and whether this means that the Interest on the loan is in substance a Dividend must be determined in each individual case in light of all the relevant facts and circumstances.

3.1.4. Dividend in kind

3.1.4.1. General

A Dividend will usually take the form of a cash amount. However, as defined, it can also take a different form, such as securities or other properties, or some other asset of the entity making the distribution. This is referred to as a Dividend in kind.

In the case where a Dividend in kind is received, the value of the Dividend in the hands of the Taxable Person is the value recorded in its Financial Statements prepared as per the applicable Accounting Standards, as long as the value is recorded at Market Value.

3.1.4.2. Issuance of bonus shares

Bonus shares usually refer to additional shares that a company allocates to its existing shareholders out of its profits or reserves, without receiving new consideration from the shareholders. Since bonus shares are in effect a payment out of a company's profit and reserves, they meet the definition of a Dividend.

3.1.5. Other distributions

3.1.5.1. In substance distributions

As per the definition of Dividend, a payment or benefit made in connection with the following would be considered a Dividend to the extent it constitutes, in substance, a distribution of profit:

* The acquisition by a company of its own shares (buy-back of shares);
* The redemption of shares;
* The cancellation of shares (capital reduction); or
* The termination of other ownership interests or rights.


This Section must be read in conjunction with the discussion of ordinary Dividend (see Section 3.1.2). Hence, it is possible that only part of such payments or benefits would be classified as a Dividend.

In order to fall within the definition of a Dividend in any of the above instances, payments or benefits should be made out of distributable profits (see Section 3.1.2.4). Thus, where payments are made to shareholders or rights holders in connection with the acquisition, redemption or cancellation of shares or termination of other ownership interests or rights, the Dividend amount will be the difference between the proceeds received by the shareholder and the paid-up value of the shares, limited to the amount of distributable accumulated profits (or retained earnings). The balance amount (if any) may be an exempt capital gain if the conditions of the Participation Exemption are satisfied.


















Equity	and
Liabilities
Amount
(AED)
Assets
Amount
(AED)
Capital
(100	shares	of
AED 5 each)

500

Cash

700
Distributable
profits
200


Total
700
Total
700




Equity	and
Liabilities
Amount
(AED)
Assets
Amount
(AED)
Capital
(50 shares of 5 AED each)

250

Cash

250


Total
250
Total
250











3.1.6. Non-arm's length: constructive Dividend

Constructive Dividends are payments or benefits received by a shareholder as an assignment of income, despite the absence of a formal distribution. This could arise, for example, as a result of a transaction under which a parent company receives compensation that exceeds the fair value of the goods or services provided by it, to its subsidiary. As defined, any payment or benefit that arises to a Related Party or Connected Person (who is a shareholder) as a result of a transaction or arrangement which does not comply with the arm's length principle will constitute a distribution of profit in substance and accordingly, qualify as a Dividend, to the extent to which it is not at arm's length.

Taxation of Dividends and other profit distributions

3.2.1. Personal Investment income (natural person only)

For a natural person, whether resident or non-resident, Personal Investment activities are excluded from the definition of Business or Business Activity for Corporate Tax purposes.5 Hence, where Dividend income received by a natural person is Personal Investment income, it is not Taxable Income for Corporate Tax purposes.


5 Article 2(2)(b) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.




3.2.2. Dividend from a Resident Person

A Dividend received from a juridical person that is a Resident Person is always Exempt Income for Corporate Tax purposes with no further conditions.7

3.2.3. Foreign Dividends

A foreign Dividend is a Dividend received from a foreign juridical person that is a Non- Resident Person. A foreign Dividend is Exempt Income for Corporate Tax purposes if the conditions of the Participation Exemption are satisfied (see Section 5).8

If the conditions are not satisfied, the foreign Dividend will be included in the Taxable Income of a juridical person that is a Resident Person.9 In the case of a Resident Person who is a natural person, the foreign Dividend will similarly be included in the Taxable Income if it is attributed to a Business or Business Activity, unless it represents Personal Investment income.10

In the case of a juridical person that is a Non-Resident Person, foreign Dividend income is subject to Corporate Tax only insofar as it is attributable to a Permanent Establishment of that Non-Resident Person in the UAE.11 However, it will be Exempt Income if the conditions of the Participation Exemption are satisfied.12


Figure 1: Overview of taxation of Dividend income under the Corporate Tax Law














6 Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 7 Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 8 Article 22(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 9 Article 12(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 10 Article 12(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
11 Article 12(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
12 Article 22(2) and 22(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.






4. Participation Exemption: overview

Introduction

Certain income received by a Taxable Person from a Participating Interest in a juridical person is exempt from Corporate Tax.13 This goes beyond the automatic exemption for Dividends from a juridical person that is a Resident Person, and provides an exemption (subject to conditions) for foreign Dividends, capital gains or losses, foreign exchange gains or losses, and impairment gains or losses. Similarly, as is the case for Dividends in Section 3, the intention of the Participation Exemption is to eliminate double taxation.

To illustrate this, Company A earns profit of USD 1,000 in its state of residence (Country A) on which it pays tax in Country A. Out of these taxed profits, Company A distributes USD 100 to its sole shareholder as a Dividend. In this case, taxing the Dividend income of USD 100 in the hands of the shareholder will lead to double taxation (i.e. the USD 100 profits being taxed both at the level of Company A as well as at the level of its shareholder), which the Participation Exemption regime aims to eliminate.

The Participation Exemption rules are broadly structured as follows:14

* Providing the definition and conditions of a Participating Interest;15
* Clarifying the types of income and losses from a Participating Interest which are exempt from Corporate Tax;16
* Clarifying the implications of a failure to meet the conditions of the Participation Exemption.17

Definition of Participating Interest

In broad terms, a Participating Interest is a significant, long-term ownership interest in a juridical person (the "Participation") that suggests some degree of control or influence over the Participation. In line with this principle, several conditions must all be satisfied in order to qualify as a Participating Interest:




13 Article 22(2) and Article 22(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
14 Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.
15 Articles 23(2), 22(3), 23(4), 23(6), 23(7) and 23(11) of the Corporate Tax Law.
16 Article 23(5) and Article 23(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
17 Article 23(9) and Article 23(10) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* A Participating Interest represents a 5% or greater ownership interest in a Participation ("minimum ownership test").18
* Alternatively, the ownership test can be satisfied if the acquisition cost of the ownership interest is equal to or exceeds a specific threshold (AED 4 million) ("minimum acquisition cost test").19
* The Participating Interest must be held, or intended to be held, for an uninterrupted period of at least 12 months ("holding period test").20
* The Participation must be subject to Corporate Tax, or equivalent foreign corporate tax at a rate of 9% or more ("subject to tax test").21 Qualifying Free Zone Persons, Exempt Persons and holding companies, subject to certain conditions, are treated as having met the subject to tax test.22
* The ownership interest in the Participation must entitle the holder to receive at least 5% of the profits and liquidation proceeds ("entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds test").23
* Not more than 50% of the direct and indirect assets of the Participation must consist of ownership interests which would not qualify for the Participation Exemption if held directly ("asset test").24

For more detailed discussion on these conditions see Section 5.

Exempt Income and losses

The Participation Exemption can, provided the necessary conditions are met, provide an exemption from Corporate Tax for the following:25

* Dividends and other profit distributions received from a foreign Participation that is not a Resident Person.26
* In relation to a Participating Interest, whether derived from a Resident Person or a foreign juridical person that is a Non-Resident Person:
o Gains or losses on the transfer, sale, or other disposition of a Participating Interest (or part thereof).27



18 Article 23(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
19 Article 23(11) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 8(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
20 Article 23(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
21 Article 23(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
22 Article 23(3) and Article 23(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
23 Article 23(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 24 Article 23(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 25 Article 23(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
26 Article 23(5)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
27 Article 23(5)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


o Foreign exchange gains or losses.28
o Impairment gains or losses.29

The Participation Exemption applies the same treatment to both gains and losses. Thus, no deduction for Corporate Tax is allowed for capital losses, foreign exchange losses or impairment losses where the conditions for a Participating Interest are met. For more discussion on Exempt Income and losses under the Participation Exemption, see Section 6.

In general terms, other income that is not directly related to the ownership of a Participating Interest, such as income from services provided to the Participation or Interest income earned under a loan granted to the Participation, will in principle not be exempt from Corporate Tax by virtue of the Participation Exemption.

Expenditure incurred in relation to Exempt Income, which includes where the Participation Exemption applies, is not deductible for Corporate Tax purposes, 30 except for Interest expense. 31 See Section 7 regarding the non-deductibility of expenditure.

Automatic exemption: no election required

The Participation Exemption applies without the need for the Taxable Person to make an election or file an application with the FTA. Accordingly, if the relevant conditions are met, the Participation Exemption will apply automatically with regards to all relevant income derived from Participating Interests. All conditions of the Participation Exemption must be satisfied at the time income is derived from a Participating Interest. The timing of when income is derived will normally be based on the Financial Statements prepared by the Taxable Person under the applicable Accounting Standards (an exception would be where the Cash Basis of Accounting is applied).

Availability of exemption to both Resident Person and Non-Resident Person

Any Taxable Person, Resident or Non-Resident Persons, can benefit from the Participation Exemption in respect of relevant income if the conditions are satisfied. Thus, income from a Participating Interest that is attributable to a UAE Permanent Establishment of a Non-Resident Person will be exempt if the conditions of the Participation Exemption are met.


28 Article 23(5)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
29 Article 23(5)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
30 Article 22 and Article 28(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
31 Article 29 of the Corporate Tax Law.


5. Participation	Exemption:	definition	of	Participating Interest
In order for income to benefit from the Participation Exemption, it must relate to a Participating Interest. The following flowchart sets out the conditions to qualify as a Participating Interest. It follows the order they are listed in Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law. In practice it may not be necessary to consider the conditions in sequence in order to reach a conclusion.

Figure 2: Overview of conditions to qualify as a Participating Interest



Does a Taxable Person hold an ownership	No interest in a juridical person?


Not a Participating Interest



Yes

Whether Taxable Person holds at least a 5% ownership interest (in aggregate1) in the juridical person?

Yes

Whether minimum level of ownership interest (5% or AED 4 million) has been held for an uninterrupted period of 12 months?2

Yes



No


Yes


No



Yes



Whether acquisition cost of ownership	No interest (in aggregate1) exceeds AED 4
million?



  Whether minimum level of ownership	No interest (5% or AED 4 million) is intended
to be held for an uninterrupted period of 12 months? 2 3



Whether the Participation is subject to UAE Corporate Tax or whether the Participation is resident for tax purposes in a foreign jurisdiction which applies tax on a similar basis to Corporate Tax and at a rate not less than 9%?4


Yes



No



Yes


Whether the Participation is subject to tax on income or profits at an effective rate of at least 9%, calculated as per Article 6(5) or 6(6) of Ministerial
Decision No. 116 of 2023?

No

Whether the principal objective and activity of the Participation is the acquisition and holding of ownership interests as per Article 7(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023?












     No 


Yes





Yes




Yes

Whether at least 50% of the income of the Participation is derived from holding Participating Interests?

No

Whether the Participation is a Qualifying Free Zone Person or an Exempt Person?




Whether ownership interest entitles	No
holder to at least 5% of profits and	 	                                                                                                                               liquidation proceeds?

Yes

    Whether 50% or less of the assets of the	No Participation are ownership interests which would
not qualify as Participating Interests if held directly?

Yes

1 Aggregation of ownership interests as per Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023. See Section 5.2.1
2 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023 provides a relaxation in holding period condition where ownership interest is acquired in accordance with Article 27(1) [business restructuring relief]. See Section 5.3.3.
3 In the case of capital gains, the intention to hold an ownership interest does not apply. The ownership interest must have actually been held for a period of 12 months, or for a period of 2 years where the ownership interest is acquired in scenarios covered under Article 23(9). Refer Section 5.3.4
4 Determined as per Article 6(2), 6(3), 6(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023. See Section 5.5.2


Ownership interest test

The first condition to qualify for the Participation Exemption is that a Taxable Person must hold an "ownership interest" in the shares or capital of a juridical person. The meaning of the term "share" is discussed in Section 3.1.2.1. Further, other methods of dividing capital that would constitute ownership interests include membership interests and other securities or rights that entitle the holder to profits and liquidation proceeds of the entity. Examples include interests in certain incorporated partnerships or units issued by an investment fund.

5.1.1. What is an ownership interest?

An ownership interest can be understood as any equity or similar interest (for example, a partnership interest) that carries rights to the profits and liquidation proceeds of the Participation.

A holding can qualify as an ownership interest for the purposes of Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law only if it is treated as an equity interest under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person holding the ownership interest.32 This would distinguish between an ownership interest and other rights to the profits and liquidation proceeds of an entity, such as profit-sharing agreements with employees that do not carry any equity rights to the entity or creditors' rights to compel the sale of certain assets to satisfy an obligation of an entity that is in default.

To the extent that shares or capital held by a Taxable Person grant the same rights to both the profits as well as the liquidation proceeds of the Participation, no consideration needs to be given to the different classes of shares or capital issued. An ownership interest can include, but is not limited to, holdings in any one or a combination of the following instruments:33

Type of instrument
Description


Ordinary Shares
Category of capital stock or equivalent ownership interest, which gives its owner, on a share-by-share basis, equal entitlement to voting rights, profits, and liquidation proceeds.

Preferred Shares
Category of capital stock or equity interest which gives its owner priority entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds ahead of owners of Ordinary Shares.


32 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
33 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


Type of instrument
Description



Redeemable Shares
Category of capital stock or equity interest which the juridical person issuing this instrument has agreed to redeem or buy back from the owner of this instrument at a future date or after a specific event, for a predetermined amount or with reference to a predetermined amount.


Membership and Partner Interests
Equity interests owned by a member or a partner in the juridical person, which entitles the member or the partner to a share of the profits, determined with reference to the member's or the partner's capital contribution, and which may be transferred to others.
Islamic	Financial
Instrument         or         a
combination	of arrangements that form part of the same Islamic Financial Instrument


Islamic Financial Instrument is a financial instrument which is compliant with Sharia principles.

The above list of ownership instruments is only illustrative. Other types of participating rights to the profits and liquidation proceeds of the Participation and treated as an equity interest under the applicable Accounting Standards, may also qualify as ownership interests. For example, the definition of Ordinary Shares refers to capital stock which gives its owner equal entitlement to voting rights, profits, and liquidation proceeds. However, shares that do not carry voting rights but have rights to profits and liquidation proceeds can also qualify as an ownership interest.

Ownership interests may carry rights to profits and liquidation proceeds in different percentages. For example, an ownership interest may carry a right to 20% of the profits of an entity but only 10% of the liquidation proceeds. These will need to be looked at separately when determining the "entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds test" (see Section 5.7).

5.1.2. Debt instruments issued by the Participation

Debt instruments can be contrasted with equity instruments in the nature of the liability and risk. Whilst equity gives a residual claim on the assets of the entity, a debt instrument involves an obligation to pay an amount of principal and / or interest usually according to a predefined formula. Typically, the creditor (the lender) is paid in priority to equity holders, having less risk than equity holders, though may not have recourse


to the entity's assets. Hence, ordinarily debt instruments do not qualify as an ownership interest for the purposes of the Participation Exemption.

However, a debt instrument (including those convertible into equity) is treated as an ownership interest if it is classified as an equity interest under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.34 Thus, compound financial instruments or hybrid instruments which have features of debt as well as equity may qualify as an ownership interest depending on their accounting classification under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

5.1.3. Options

An option is a right to buy (call option) or sell (put option) something for a fixed price at a future date. Accordingly, holding an option does not imply that the holder actually or in fact has an ownership interest in an entity. Therefore, the holding of an option would not be considered as holding an ownership interest.

5.1.4. Owner of ownership interests

The specified income from a Participation is exempt only if it is received by a Taxable Person in their capacity as "owner" of an ownership interest or ownership interests in the Participation. Income derived from a Participation in any other capacity, such as a lender or service provider, is not exempt from Corporate Tax under the Participation Exemption.35

A Taxable Person shall be treated as holding an ownership interest where the ownership interest is controlled by the Taxable Person and the Taxable Person has the right to the economic benefits produced by the ownership interest under the Accounting Standards as applied by the Taxable Person.36

The person receiving the income must be the economic owner of the ownership interest. A person is the economic owner when they have (or are entitled to) all or substantially all the benefits and burdens of ownership, including rights to profits, liquidation proceeds, or voting in respect of the Participation, and they have not renounced or transferred such rights under another arrangement.

Thus, if a person holds the ownership interest in the capacity of an agent, nominee, fiduciary or administrator, so that they are simply a conduit for another person who in fact is entitled to the benefits and burdens of ownership, the former is not the economic


34 Article 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
35 Article 11 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
36 Article 2(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


owner of the ownership interest. Accordingly, they will not be entitled to the Participation Exemption with respect to income from the Participation.

Even if a person legally holds the ownership interest in their own name (i.e. legal owner), they may potentially not qualify as the economic owner if the right to use and enjoy the benefits of the ownership interest is constrained by a contractual or legal obligation to pass on the benefit received to another person. Such an obligation will normally derive from relevant legal agreements but may also be found to exist on the basis of facts and circumstances showing that, in substance, the legal owner does not have the right to use and enjoy the benefits of an ownership interest in an unconstrained manner.

Minimum ownership test

A Participating Interest must represent a 5% or greater ownership of the shares or capital of the juridical person.37 A less than 5% ownership interest in a juridical person will not qualify for the Participation Exemption, unless the minimum acquisition cost test is met (see Section 5.4).

5.2.1. Computation of percentage ownership
The percentage ownership must be calculated as: Percentage ownership (PO) = X *100 where:
Y

X = Paid-up capital of ownership interests held by a Taxable Person in the Participation. Different types of ownership interests held by the Taxable Person in the same juridical person can be aggregated for the purposes of applying the 5% threshold test.38

Y = Total paid-up capital of the Participation or the total equity interest contributions made to the Participation, as applicable.39



37 Article 23(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
38 Article 3(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
39 Article 2(5) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.




5.2.2. Aggregation of Qualifying Group holdings

Ownership interests in the same juridical person held by other members of a Qualifying Group are aggregated with those of the Taxable Person.40

5.2.3. Falling below the 5% ownership threshold

Since the Participation Exemption is automatic and applies without the need for an election or an application, all conditions must be satisfied at the time income is derived from a Participating Interest (see Section 4.4).

Therefore, if at the time the income is derived, the Taxable Person does not hold at least a 5% ownership interest, the condition is not met and accordingly, the income is not exempt under the Participation Exemption, unless the minimum acquisition cost test is met (see Section 5.4).

The timing of when income is derived will normally be based on the Financial Statements prepared by the Taxable Person under the applicable Accounting Standards (an exception would be where the Cash Basis of Accounting is applied).














40 Article 3(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


Example 5: Sale of ownership interests in tranches

Company A (a company incorporated and resident in the UAE) adopts a Tax Period of 1 January to 31 December. Company A has acquired shares in Company Z (a company incorporated and managed outside the UAE) and has the following transactions with respect to the investment:

Date
Transaction
1 November 2022
Acquired 20% of shares of Company Z below AED 4
million
1 March 2024
Sold 17% of shares of Company Z for proceeds
exceeding original cost
1 June 2024
Received Dividend from Company Z
1 August 2024
Acquired additional 2% of shares of Company Z
1 August 2025
Acquired additional 2% of shares of Company Z
31 December 2025
Received Dividend from Company Z

Assuming that the other relevant conditions are satisfied, the tax treatment of the various income items is as follows:

* Gain from sale of shares on 1 March 2024: At the time of sale, Company A held more than 5% ownership interest for more than 12 months, so the gain on sale is exempt. (If the sale had resulted in a loss, the loss would have been excluded from the Taxable Income of Company A).
* Dividend received on 1 June 2024: At the time the Dividend income is received, Company A holds only 3% of the shares in Company Z with an acquisition cost of less than AED 4 million. This is below the required 5% ownership and minimum acquisition cost threshold, and consequently, the Dividend is not exempt.
* Dividend received on 31 December 2025: At the time the Dividend income is received, Company A holds 7% of the shares in Company Z so the ownership threshold condition is met. Further, a shareholding of 5% has been held for more than 12 months (the additional 2% acquired on 1 August 2024 resulted in a 5% holding - the 2% acquired on 1 August 2025 would be considered for the purpose of this test if there is an intention to hold these shares for at least 12 months). Thus, the 12-month holding period test is also met. Therefore, the Dividend received on 31 December 2025 is exempt.


Holding period test

A Participating Interest must be held, or intended to be held, for a continuous period of at least 12 months.41 The 12-month holding period is provided to prevent a scenario where a Taxable Person, holding less than 5% of a Participating Interest, increases their holding shortly before receiving income from the Participating Interest, primarily for the purpose of securing the benefits of the Participation Exemption. Thus, a 12- month holding period ensures that the benefit of Participation Exemption is available to long-term holdings.

5.3.1. Intention to hold Participating Interest for at least 12 months

Whether the Taxable Person has held a Participating Interest for 12 months is tested on the date when income from a Participating Interest is derived.

However, there is no requirement for the Participating Interest to be held for the full Tax Period, nor is it required for the minimum holding period to be met at the time the income is derived (subject to the exceptions noted in Section 5.3.4). Income received before the minimum holding period is completed can also benefit from the Participation Exemption, as long as the Taxable Person has the intention to hold the Participating Interest for at least 12 months, indicating that it is not merely a short-term investment.

Whether or not the Participating Interest is intended to be held for at least 12 months may generally be inferred from the relevant facts and circumstances, including, for example:

* Whether the Taxable Person is engaged in the Business of buying and selling securities (as a trader).
* The accounting treatment of the Participating Interest in the Financial Statements of the Taxable Person (fixed asset investment as opposed to stock/inventory, for example).
* The intention at the time of acquiring the Participating Interest - was it acquired with the intention of disposing of it at a profit, or was it acquired as a long-term investment?

Where a Taxable Person benefits from the Participation Exemption on the basis of an intention to meet the 12-month holding period, but subsequently does not achieve that condition, the income previously not taken into account in determining Taxable Income must be included in the calculation of Taxable Income in the Tax Period where the condition is breached.42


41 Article 23(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
42 Article 23(10) of the Corporate Tax Law.





5.3.2. Different ownerships interests in a juridical person held for different periods

A Taxable Person can hold different ownership interests (which can be the same or a different class of shares) in a single juridical person which are purchased on different dates such that some of the ownership interests are held for 12 months while some are not. In such a case, where the Taxable Person disposes of part of their ownership interests, the question arises as to whether the holding period test is satisfied.

Different types of ownership interests held by the Taxable Person in the same juridical person are to be aggregated while testing the conditions of the Participation Exemption. 43 Once the conditions of the Participation Exemption are met, the ownership interests form a single Participation. Accordingly, where part of a Participating Interest is disposed of, the holding period condition is to be tested in respect of the Participation as a whole and not each ownership interest individually.


43 Article 3(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


Transaction
Holding %
Holding Period
Purchase of Ordinary
Shares of Company Z
6%
5 years
Purchase of Preferred
Shares of Company Z
3%
3 months
Sale of Preferred Shares
of Company Z
2%
N/A







5.3.3. Transfer of ownership interest in case of business restructuring

Where a Taxable Person exchanges an ownership interest in one juridical person for that in another juridical person, and where this exchange does not give rise to Taxable Income, due to the application of Business Restructuring Relief,44 the ownership of the two interests is treated as a single continuous ownership (not two separate ownership periods) provided that both qualify as Participating Interests.45 This means the period of ownership can look through a qualifying business restructuring.

5.3.4. Required holding period exceptions

Generally, income from a Participating Interest before the 12-month holding period is completed can still benefit from the Participation Exemption, as long as the intention is to hold the interest for at least 12 months. However, there are two exceptions when the intention is not sufficient, and in such cases the Participation Exemption only applies after the relevant holding period requirement has actually been met.

The first case is in the case of capital gains or losses (see Section 6.2). To be exempt, the Participating Interest must have been held for the required period of 12 months. Thus, where a Participating Interest has not been held for at least 12 months, a capital gain or loss on the sale, transfer or other disposition of the asset will not be exempt.46

In the second case, the Participation Exemption does not apply for a period of two years where the Participation is acquired under the following circumstances:47


44 Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.
45 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
46 Article 23(5)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
47 Article 23(9) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* In exchange for the transfer of an ownership interest that is not a Participating Interest, i.e. the asset held previously would not have qualified for the Participation Exemption;
* In the case of an exempt transfer within a Qualifying Group;48 or
* In the case of an exempt transfer covered by Business Restructuring Relief.49

In the above circumstances, the Participating Interest must be held for at least two years (i.e. 24 months) before the Participation Exemption can apply.


Minimum acquisition cost test

As an alternative to the requirement to have a 5% or greater ownership interest (see Section 5.2), a Taxable Person will be treated as having a Participating Interest if the acquisition cost exceeds AED 4 million.50

The minimum acquisition cost threshold serves as an administrative simplification, recognising that a material investment in a juridical person is often representative of the long-term nature of the investment and would generally provide the holder with some degree of control or influence over the entity.

48 Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law.
49 Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.
50 Article 23(11) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 8(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.



If the Taxable Person does not meet the minimum acquisition cost threshold (i.e. AED 4 million) for an uninterrupted period of at least 12 months, income previously not taken into account in determining Taxable Income on the basis of the Participation Exemption is included in the calculation of Taxable Income in the Tax Period where the condition is breached.51

5.4.1. Aggregation of acquisition costs

For the purposes of this test, the acquisition cost of different types of ownership interests held by a Taxable Person in the same juridical person are aggregated. What needs to be determined is if the aggregate acquisition cost is equal to or exceeds the minimum acquisition cost (currently AED 4 million).52


Further, the acquisition costs of ownership interests in the same juridical person held by members of a Qualifying Group (as defined in Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law) in which the Taxable Person is a member, are aggregated. 53 The minimum acquisition cost test is met if the aggregate acquisition cost of ownership interests held by all members of the Qualifying Group together exceed the threshold of AED 4 million. Thus, the intra-group transfer of ownership interests between members of a Qualifying Group does not have an impact on the minimum acquisition cost test.






51 Article 23(11) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 23(2) of the Corporate Tax Law..
52 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
53 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


5.4.2. Computation of acquisition cost

The aggregate acquisition cost is computed as follows:54


Cost
Notes
Value of contributions made

* Includes consideration paid/repaid in cash or in kind.56
* The value is determined at the time of the transaction, i.e. when the capital contribution was made. No account is taken of any subsequent value adjustments made under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person holding the ownership interest. 57 Thus, what is relevant here is the actual historical cost of acquiring the ownership interest (e.g. cash paid) and not, for instance, the adjusted book value or Market Value of the ownership interest.
or	consideration	paid

towards ownership interest

in Participation.55

Add:	Value	of	any

subsequent	contributions

made or consideration paid

towards ownership interest

in Participation.58

Less: Value of equity/ capital

repayment	made	by	the

Participation (for example on

redemption or buy back of

shares).59






Less: Cost attributable to part of the ownership interest sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of.
Where an ownership interest is partly sold, transferred, or otherwise disposed of, the aggregated acquisition cost shall be reduced in proportion to the average acquisition cost attributable to the part of the ownership interest that is sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of.60

Example 10: Determining cost on partial sale

A Taxable Person holds the following interests in a juridical person:


54 Article 8 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
55 Article 8(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023. 56 Article 8(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023. 57 Article 8(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
58 Article 8(2)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023. 59 Article 8(2)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023. 60 Article 8(5) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


Cost
Notes


Add: Expenditure incurred by the Taxable Person in relation to the acquisition or transfer of ownership interests which is capitalised as an acquisition cost of Participating Interest.61

Expenses incurred in relation to the acquisition, sale, transfer, or disposal of an entire Participating Interest or part of a Participating Interest should be capitalised for Corporate Tax purposes, even if such expenses are not capitalised in the Financial Statements.62 For examples, see Section 7.2.1

In addition to above, the following aspects should be taken into account when computing the acquisition cost:

* Foreign currency: for Corporate Tax purposes, all amounts must be quantified in UAE dirham. Hence, if an acquisition cost is incurred in another currency, it must be converted to UAE dirham. 63 The relevant exchange rate at the date of acquisition or formation of the relevant ownership interest should be used.64
* The cost of acquisition can be zero for certain ownership interests. As mentioned above, the minimum acquisition cost test requires the use of the actual cost regardless of the accounting treatment. Thus, where no cost is incurred, for example on the issue of bonus shares not in lieu of a Dividend, there will be no cost of acquisition for the purpose of this test.
* The cost of acquisition of an ownership interest is the cost in the hands of the previous owner where the Taxable Person has acquired the ownership interest

61 Article 8(2)(c) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
62 Article 10(4) of Ministerial Decision 116 of 2023.
63 Article 43 of the Corporate Tax Law read with FTA Decision No. 13 of 2023.
64 Article 8(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


from another Qualifying Group member and the relief under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law was applied to the relevant transaction.
* In the case where Business Restructuring Relief applies, the cost of acquisition of the ownership interests received by the Taxable Person is the value to the other Person of the Business transferred.65

Subject to tax test

Under the "subject to tax" test, the Participation must be subject to an adequate level of taxation.66 This test will be satisfied if the Participation is subject to:

* UAE Corporate Tax; or
* Any other tax similar to Corporate Tax in its country of residence at a rate of at least 9%.

As mentioned, the purpose of the Participation Exemption is to prevent double taxation where a Participation that distributes a profit or whose shares or other ownership interests are being sold may have already been taxed on its profits. Accordingly, and to prevent income from being shifted to foreign jurisdictions to inappropriately benefit from the Participation Exemption, income derived from subsidiaries that are resident in no or low-tax jurisdictions would generally not benefit from the Participation Exemption regime (see Section 5.6 for exceptions).

5.5.1. Subject to Corporate Tax or similar

It should normally be clear when a Participation which is a Resident Person in the UAE is subject to UAE Corporate Tax.

The Participation is considered to have met the subject to tax requirement under Article 23(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law for a specific Tax Period when it is resident for tax purposes throughout that same Tax Period in another country or a foreign territory that levies a tax meeting all of the following requirements:

* The tax is applied on a similar basis to Corporate Tax; and
* The tax is levied at a rate not less than 9%.67

For a Participation which is tax resident in a foreign jurisdiction to meet the subject to tax test, the relevant foreign jurisdiction must have a corporate tax regime that is


65 Article 27(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
66 Article 23(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
67 Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


similar in nature to the UAE Corporate Tax for the entire Tax Period during which the Taxable Person holds the Participation.

The following factors regarding the jurisdiction in which the Participation is resident do not imply that the jurisdiction does not have a similar tax to Corporate Tax: 68

* Differences in reductions and reliefs (e.g. different treatment of entertainment expenditure or interest expense, a more favourable exemption for capital gains and dividend income, or the ability to carry back tax losses incurred).
* Lower tax rates applicable to certain brackets of income.
* Targeted incentives or exemptions of a temporary nature, e.g. tax credits or exemptions from corporate tax for setting up a manufacturing site or moving headquarter functions to a foreign country. The incentives must be granted for a certain period. A permanent tax exemption would not be considered as being of a temporary nature.
* Application of alternative taxes on income or profits such as:
o A system which requires the 'standard' tax liability to be compared with an alternative calculation on a secondary basis, with tax payable being the higher of the two, e.g., certain countries apply a corporate alternate minimum tax on the adjusted financial statement income of a taxpayer if the amount of tax liability determined under the alternative minimum tax rules exceeds the tax liability determined under regular income tax rules; or
o A broad-based corporate tax regime that does not apply to locally or regionally owned companies for instance being exempt from corporate taxation but subject to Zakat or a different form of effective taxation.

The determination of being subject to Corporate Tax (or any other tax of a similar character to Corporate Tax), must be made based on a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances concerning the tax legislation of the jurisdiction in question.

In the following cases, the tax imposed by the jurisdiction in which the Participation is resident will not be treated as having a similar nature to Corporate Tax and therefore the condition will not be satisfied:69

* The tax is applicable only to selected activities performed in the jurisdiction such as banking and insurance activities, resulting in most businesses not being within the scope of the foreign country's corporate tax regime.
* The tax paid is refunded at the time of distribution of the relevant profits or income, resulting in the profits earned by businesses in that jurisdiction not being taxed.



68 Article 6(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
69 Article 6(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


* The tax is only due in the event of a distribution of profits or income. Thus, it is required that income and profits of businesses in the foreign jurisdiction are taxed as earned / accrued irrespective of when distributed.

5.5.2. Foreign tax rate of at least 9%

If a Participation is resident in a jurisdiction that levies a corporate tax of a similar character to the UAE, at a statutory tax rate of at least 9%, the subject to tax test is met. A recalculation of the foreign Participation's tax base to apply UAE Corporate Tax principles is not required.

However, if the statutory corporate tax rate in the foreign jurisdiction is below 9%, the subject to tax test can be met if the Participation's effective tax rate is at least 9% on any of the following alternative bases:70

* Actual effective tax rate: the actual tax paid in respect of the period divided by the profit before tax under the Accounting Standards as applied by the Participation.


* Theoretical effective tax rate: the effective tax rate if the Participation recalculated its accounting net profits on the basis required by the UAE Corporate Tax.71


70 Article 6(5) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
71 Accounting net profits calculated in accordance with the Accounting Standards specified in the Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.




* Other taxes: in case the jurisdiction in which the Participation is resident does not impose a tax that is similar to Corporate Tax, the total tax charged on income, equity or net worth, or a combination of any or all of these, divided by the accounting net profit.72


Exceptions to the subject to tax test

The following exceptions mean that income from Participations which are Qualifying Free Zone Persons, Exempt Persons, holding companies and entities that elect to apply Small Business Relief are treated as satisfying the subject to tax test, even if they are not taxed, or are taxed but at a rate of less than 9%.

5.6.1. Qualifying Free Zone Persons and Exempt Persons

72 Article 6(6) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.



Dividends from a Free Zone Person, as a juridical person that is a Resident Person in the UAE, would be automatically exempt, so the following is relevant in respect of Qualifying Free Zone Persons for income other than Dividends and other profit distributions.

For the purpose of the subject to tax test, a Participation that is a Qualifying Free Zone Person under Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law, or an Exempt Person under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law, is deemed to satisfy the subject to tax test.73

In case a Participation ceases to be a Qualifying Free Zone Person or an Exempt Person during a Tax Period, there would be no practical impact on the subject to tax test as described in Section 5.5, as the Participation would then become subject to UAE Corporate Tax which would satisfy the subject to tax test.74

5.6.2. Holding companies

Holding companies are treated as having satisfied the subject to tax test if both of the following conditions are met:75

* The principal objective and activity of the holding company is the acquisition and holding of investments that also meet the conditions of Participating Interest.76
* The income of the holding company substantially consists of income from the Participating Interests.77

5.6.2.1. Intention of holding of investments

The following conditions must be met by a holding company to be considered that its principal objective is the acquisition and holding of shares or equitable interests:78

* Be directed and managed in the relevant other country or foreign territory.79 This condition should be interpreted in view of the concept of place of effective management. This is where the most senior person or group of persons (for example board of directors) make key management and commercial decisions,


73 Article 23(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
74 Article 4(5) and Article 18(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
75 Article 23(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
76 Article 23(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
77 Article 23(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
78 Article 7(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
79 Article 7(1)(a) of the Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


the place where the actions to be taken by the entity as a whole are determined. However, all relevant facts and circumstances must be considered.
* Comply with the requirement to submit any documents, records or information to the relevant authority under the laws and regulations applicable to such Participation in the relevant other country or foreign territory.80 This includes all general obligations that must be met by the Participation in the foreign country, including but not limited to regulatory, financial and tax compliance.
* Have adequate personnel and premises for the acquisition and holding of the shares or equitable interests in the relevant other country or foreign territory, having regard to the level of activity carried on by the Participation and the extent to which those activities are performed on behalf or for the benefit of the Participation by another Person in that other country or foreign territory.81 Such substance requirements should include for example an adequate number of full- time employees with necessary qualifications required to perform the activities conducted by the holding company, along with incurring an adequate amount of operating expenses to generate the income received by the Participation.
* Not conduct any other activities other than those that are incidental or ancillary to the acquisition and holding of shares or equitable interests.82 Such activities may include management functions provided to the subsidiary's operations, e.g. financial and risk management, corporate governance, human resources, legal and compliance, communication, and stakeholder management etc. Moreover, financing of subsidiaries (e.g. granting loans) can also be seen as ancillary to the core Business of a holding company.

5.6.2.2. Income	substantially	consists	of	income	from	Participating Interests

The holding company's income must consist of an average of at least 50% of Dividends, capital gains and other income from investments which qualify as Participating Interests during the relevant Tax Period and the preceding Tax Period.83

The percentage of income is computed as follows:

Percentage income = X *100 where:
Y

X = Sum of the holding company's income from Participating Interests Y= Total income in the relevant or the preceding Tax Period
80 Article 7(1)(b) of the Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023. 81 Article 7(1)(c) of the Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023. 82 Article 7(1)(d) of the Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023. 83 Article 7(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.



The percentage income is computed for the relevant Tax Period and the preceding Tax Period. If the average result of the relevant Tax Period and the preceding Tax Period is at least 50%, the condition is met.

The relevant Tax Period is the one in which the Participation Exemption would apply to a Taxable Person's income.

Example 14: Exception to the subject to tax test - holding company

Company A (a company incorporated and resident in the UAE) holds 100% of the shares of Company D (a company incorporated and managed outside the UAE and resident in a foreign country) and subject to 7% corporate tax. Company D respectively holds 100% of the shares of Companies X, Y and Z. Company D also holds 3% of the shares in Company P with an acquisition cost of less than AED 4 million. Company D provides management functions to subsidiaries and takes the strategic investment decisions. Further, Company D owns an office building and has 15 employees, including a board of directors. All strategic decisions are taken in the country of residence of Company D. All involved entities comply with the local rules.

For the purpose of the Participation Exemption, Company D will be treated as having satisfied the subject to tax test if the principal objective is the holding of Participating Interests and more than 50% of its income is from Participating Interests. Based on the facts above, it could be said that the principal objective of Company D is the holding of the Participating Interests.

Since the shares in Company P do not qualify as a Participating Interest due to the holding being below 5% and the minimum acquisition cost, its income will not be counted for the purpose of the calculation. Only Companies X, Y and Z will be considered as Participating Interests. Therefore, only income from these companies will be considered for the purpose of assessing whether the 50% threshold is met.


Tax Periods

Description
Previous
Current
Total

AED in millions
Dividend income from Companies X, Y and Z
8
3
11
Interest income received from Companies X,
Y and Z
3
3
6




Dividend income from Company P
2
1
3
Interest income received from Company P
4
4
8






Total Income
18
20
38
Total income from Participating Interest
11
6
17
% of income from Participating Interest
61%
30%
45%








5.6.3. Small Business Relief

5.6.3.1. Where a Participation elects for Small Business Relief

The subject to tax test requires that the Participation is subject to:

* Corporate Tax, or
* Other tax of similar character to Corporate Tax imposed in the foreign jurisdiction in which the Participation is resident, at a rate not less than 9%.

Where the Participation is subject to UAE Corporate Tax, the effective tax rate is not relevant. As regards to a Participation in a Resident Person that elects Small Business Relief, it would satisfy the subject to tax test as it remains, in principle, subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE, albeit being treated as having not derived any Taxable Income. 84 Therefore, Small Business Relief would not prevent it from being a Participating Interest.

5.6.3.2. Where a Taxable Person elects to the Small Business Relief

A Resident Person which had elected Small Business Relief would not need to consider the Participation Exemption in relation to income it received, as it is treated as not having derived any Taxable Income. Thus, any exemptions, including the Participation Exemption, are disregarded. This has no Corporate Tax implication as a Taxable Person would not need to rely on the Participation Exemption until they exceed the threshold for Small Business Relief (currently where Revenue does not exceed AED 3 million).85

If a Taxable Person does not elect to apply Small Business Relief or the conditions for this relief are not met, the general Corporate Tax principles apply, including the Participation Exemption.


84 Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law.
85 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.



Entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds test

The Corporate Tax Law requires the ownership interest in the Participation to have an entitlement to at least 5% of both the profits available for distribution, and the liquidation proceeds.86

Ownership interest for this purpose generally means the legal and beneficial ownership of the shares or other ownership interests (see Section 5.1.4).

Profits available for distribution are determined by the corporate or other legislation which governs the formation or existence of the Participating Interest. This may be in either the UAE or a foreign jurisdiction. Often this will be the accumulated realised net profits based on the relevant Accounting Standards though certain profits may not be available for distribution,87 such as those allocated to a non-distributable legal reserve.

Profit allocation can be determined by various factors, such as shareholder agreements, company bylaws, or specific arrangements made among the shareholders or members. These factors can allow for different profit-sharing ratios from the shareholding/ownership percentages. Irrespective of the percentage of an ownership interest, it is the actual percentage entitlement to profits available for distribution and liquidation proceeds which is relevant here.







86 Article 23(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
87 Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.


Asset test

A Participating Interest does not qualify for the Participation Exemption if more than 50% of the Participation's direct and indirect assets consist of ownership interests or entitlements that by themselves would not qualify for the Participation Exemption regime if held directly by the Taxable Person.88 This means that if more than half of the Participation's direct and indirect asset base is made up of such assets, the Participation Exemption would not apply.

This test is intended to prevent potential abuse whereby significant non-qualifying Participations are held through an intermediary entity in order to nonetheless benefit from the Participation Exemption in respect of the intermediary's income (i.e. income which would not otherwise qualify for the Participation Exemption).

The first consideration for the asset test is which direct or indirect assets meet the definition of ownership interests (see Section 5.1.1) or entitlements, i.e. which assets can potentially constitute a Participation, such as equity investment assets.

Subsequently, those assets must be tested as to whether they meet the conditions of the Participation Exemption. After the qualifying ownership interests or entitlements have been identified, they must be compared with the Participation's total direct and indirect assets. If more than 50% of the assets constitute non-qualifying ownership interests, then the asset test would not be met.

For the purposes of calculating the 50% threshold, the determination can be made based on either of the following:89

* The consolidated balance sheet of the Participation and the accounting asset values (reflected book values) according to the applicable Accounting Standard of the Participation; or
* A Market Value valuation of the direct and indirect ownership interests and direct and indirect other assets of the Participation.

If a consolidated balance sheet is not readily available or is not prepared for this purpose, then the first approach cannot be followed and a Taxable Person can only consider the second approach.

In the case of the second approach, Market Value valuation, any valuation considered should not be older than 12 months.


88 Article 23(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
89 Article 9(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.



The asset test is a continuous test and should be met throughout the entire Tax Period in which the income from or in relation to the Participation is received.90 This means that the asset test must be satisfied from the beginning of the Tax Period until the end of the Tax Period of the Taxable Person without any interruption. In situations where there is a disposal of the Participation, the asset test must be satisfied until the date of the disposal.















31 Aug
31 Oct
* Total Assets
100,000
100,000
* Investments (ownership interests) consisting of:
70,000
50,000
o qualifying ownership interest:
10,000
30,000
o non-qualifying ownership interest:
60,000
20,000


90 Article 9(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


% of direct and indirect assets consisting of
non-qualifying ownership interest
60%
20%


6. Participation Exemption: Exempt Income and loss

Certain income and losses from, or in relation to, a Participating Interest are excluded from Taxable Income. These are: Dividends from a foreign Participation, gains or losses on the transfer, sale or other disposition of a Participating Interest, foreign exchange gains or losses and impairment gains or losses in relation to Participating Interest.91

Dividends and other profit distribution

Article 23(5)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law provides an exemption for Dividends and other profit distributions received from a foreign Participation. In this respect note that:

* For the scope of the term "Dividend and other profit distribution" and determination of Dividend income, see Section 3.
* The use of the term "received" indicates that the exemption is available only on actual receipt. In the case of the Accrual Basis of Accounting, this is when the income is recorded, rather than when the cash payment is received. This principle applies to the types of Dividends discussed in Section 3.
* Article 23(5)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law covers only Dividends and other profit distributions from a foreign Participation. A Dividend or other profit distribution received from a juridical person that is a Resident Person is excluded from Taxable Income under Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law with no further conditions (see Section 3.2.2).





91 Article 23(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


6.1.1. Tax deductible Dividends: Participation Exemption not available

The Participation Exemption in respect of Dividends and other profit distributions does not apply if the Participation can claim a deduction for Dividends or other profit distributions.92 Thus, to the extent a Dividend or a profit distribution distributed by a Participation reduces its Taxable Income; the distribution does not benefit from the Participation Exemption in the hands of the receiving Taxable Person.

This condition is intended to prevent situations of potential double non-taxation that would arise if the Participation can claim a deduction for a Dividend or a profit distribution made to a Taxable Person, but which would have been exempt at the level of the Taxable Person benefitting from the Participation Exemption.

For the condition to be triggered, the Participation would have to have actually claimed the tax deduction for the Dividend. The Participation Exemption is not impacted if the law in the relevant foreign jurisdiction permits the Participation to claim a deduction, but the Participation does not claim the deduction.

Capital gains or losses

6.2.1. General

According to Article 23(5)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law, gains resulting from the transfer, sale or other disposition ("disposal") of a Participating Interest, or part thereof, derived after expiry of the 12-month holding period are generally exempt from Corporate Tax. Moreover, capital losses are not deductible for Corporate Tax purposes. This ensures that realising the value of the Participating Interest by way of a sale is treated the same as a realisation by way of a Dividend and other distribution of the reserves and/or assets.

The gain or loss resulting from the disposal of the Participating Interest will be the amount recorded under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person. The calculation will typically be as follows:

Proceeds
Less: cost of the disposal (see Section 6.2.2)
Less: book value of the Participating Interest at the time of the disposal Equals:	capital gain/loss


6.2.2. Costs of the disposal

All costs directly related to the disposal are to be taken into account when calculating the capital gain or loss (see Section 7.2.1).

Since the costs of disposal are included in the calculation of the gain or loss, they are not otherwise deductible for the purposes of calculating Taxable Income.93

Disposal costs which are recorded in a subsequent Tax Period to the one in which the disposal occurred are also non-deductible.

Costs incurred in a Tax Period prior to the Tax Period of a disposal present a particular challenge. The initial treatment of the costs should be determined with the knowledge available when the Tax Return is prepared. If at that time, they are not clearly linked to an intended disposal, the costs are deductible. However, if these costs (which are deducted in a previous Tax Period) are associated with an eventual disposal from which the Taxable Person earns Exempt Income in a subsequent Tax Period, an adjustment should be made to disallow an amount equal to these costs while determining the Taxable Income in the Tax Period in which the disposal takes place.

Further, expenses which are clearly linked to a disposal which was not finalised (in the sense that there is no formal commitment to a disposal, for instance because a sales contract has not been concluded), would still be derived in relation to Exempt Income and hence, the costs are non-deductible.

6.2.3. Deferred consideration and other changes in proceeds

A subsequent change to the proceeds of a disposal could occur for several reasons. There may be default on the part of a purchaser in relation to an instalment payment or deferred consideration which is contingent, for example, an earn-out arrangement. In theory, there is a distinction between changes which affect the original disposal and those which constitute the disposal of a separate asset. However, in practice, to the extent that the Participation Exemption applies to the original disposal, any additional gain or loss is treated as exempt from Corporate Tax. If this is recorded in the Financial Statements of a Tax Period other than that of the original disposal, there is no need to amend the Taxable Income of the original Tax Period, as the tax liability would not be altered.


6.2.4. Meaning of disposal

The term "disposal" (defined as transfer, sale or other disposition) will generally mean a sale for cash consideration, but it can also comprise of other transfers or realisations of a Participating Interest that are comparable with a sale from an economic perspective.94 The following are illustrative examples.

6.2.4.1. Share exchange

Where a Participating Interest is transferred in exchange for shares in another entity at a valuation that is different from the book value of the Participation at the time of the disposal (for example at Market Value), a gain or loss may ordinarily arise.


6.2.4.2. Non-arm's length transaction

Where a Participating Interest is wholly or partially transferred to a Related Party by way of a non-arm's length transaction, the Taxable Income of the transferor needs to be adjusted in accordance with the rules for transactions with Related Parties to deem the sale as taking place at Market Value when determining the resulting capital gain or loss.95 The Participation Exemption would equally apply to the adjusted income.





94 Article 23(5)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.



6.2.4.3. Reduction or repurchase of capital

The repayment, reduction or repurchase of capital subscribed, for instance a restructuring of a company's share capital, may result in a gain in respect of the Participation (see Section 3.1.5.1).

6.2.4.4. Distribution of a Participation as a Dividend in kind

The distribution of a Participating Interest as a Dividend in kind may result in a gain at the level of the transferring entity, i.e. Taxable Person (see Section 3.1.4).

6.2.5. Liquidation

A Participation is considered as liquidated if it ceases to have a legal existence.96 For a company this could mean its formal closure as evidenced by its removal from the relevant register of companies.

Gains in respect of the liquidation of a Participating Interest are exempt from Corporate Tax. As an exception to the general rule, losses realised on the liquidation of a Participating Interest are not exempt, but rather they are deductible from Taxable Income.97

The gain or loss from a liquidation is computed as the difference between the acquisition cost of the Participation for Corporate Tax purposes (which will include any related capitalised costs or fees - see Section 7.2) and the fair value of the liquidation proceeds received by the Taxable Person.98 All liquidation proceeds (even to the extent they may represent accumulated net profit of the entity which is being liquidated) received by the Taxable Person will be considered as capital distributions and not Dividends or other profit distributions, and accordingly will be included in the calculation of the gain or loss from liquidation. Insofar as any part disposals of the Participation have taken place, the aggregated historical acquisition costs are to be reduced in proportion to the average acquisition cost attributable to the part of the ownership interest that is disposed of.99

Any of the following items taken into account in the Tax Period in which the liquidation took place and the previous Tax Period must be reversed by the Taxable Person when determining the liquidation loss:100

96 Article 12(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
97 Article 23(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
98 Article 12(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
99 Article 8(5) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
100 Article 12(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.



* Tax Losses transferred from the Participation to the Taxable Person.
* Exempt Dividends or other profit distributions received by the Taxable Person from the Participation.
* Income or gains on the transfer of assets or liabilities between the Taxable Person and the Participation which benefited from relief for transfers within a Qualifying Group or Business Restructuring Relief.

Example 20: Liquidation loss

Company A holds 100% of the shares of Company D, both are resident and incorporated in the UAE. The acquisition cost of the Participating Interest in Company D is AED 50,000, and the Market Value of Company D's net assets is AED 10,000.

During the Tax Period ending 31 December 2024, Company D paid a Dividend of AED 10,000 to Company A. In addition to this, Company D transferred Tax Losses of AED 20,000 to Company A, who deducted this from their Taxable Income.

On 15 June 2025, Company A resolves to liquidate Company D. It is removed from the commercial register on 30 June 2025, and ceases to have legal existence. Legal fees incurred in relation to the liquidation are AED 5,000.

In the course of the liquidation, all assets will be transferred to Company A at their Market Values for tax purposes (no application of reliefs). The liquidation loss is calculated as follows:

* Acquisition cost of the Participating Interest in Company D: AED 50,000
* Less: liquidation proceeds received by Company A (Market Value of the net assets of Company D less liquidation costs borne by Company D): AED 10,000
- AED 5,000 = AED 5,000
* Equals: liquidation loss of AED 45,000

The liquidation loss that can be deducted from Taxable Income, however, must be adjusted for the following items:

* Exempt Dividend received in 2024 (i.e. preceding Tax Period): AED 10,000
* Transferred Tax Losses received in 2024: AED 20,000

Thus, the liquidation loss (after adjustment) amounts to AED 15,000 (i.e. AED 45,000 - AED 10,000 - AED 20,000).


6.2.6. Interaction with other reliefs: transfers within a Qualifying Group and Business Restructuring Relief

Where other reliefs are claimed, specifically for a transfer within a Qualifying Group or Business Restructuring Relief, no gain or loss is taken into account in relation to the disposal of a Participating Interest when calculating the Taxable Income of the transferring entity. In principle, the Participation Exemption would take priority over these reliefs as it is an automatic exemption. However, where other elected reliefs have a different tax treatment, such as no gain or loss treatment (i.e. rather than exemption), the other tax treatment will prevail.

However, in scenarios where a Participating Interest is disposed of within two years after that Participating Interest was acquired as a result of a transaction that benefited from the relief transfers within a Qualifying Group or Business Restructuring Relief, the Participation Exemption shall not apply.101

6.2.7. Interaction with the Tax Group

Where a member of a Tax Group receives income from the disposal of a Participating Interest that is a member of the same Tax Group, the application of the Participation Exemption is not required since those transactions will generally be eliminated when the Parent Company prepares its consolidated Financial Statements for Corporate Tax purposes.

However, in scenarios where the Participating Interest has been transferred between the members of a Tax Group and either the transferor or transferee leaves the Tax Group within two years from the date of the disposal, a possible gain or loss from the disposal needs to be taken into account when determining the Taxable Income of the Tax Group unless the income would have been exempt from Corporate Tax under the Participation Exemption or other reliefs (either transfers within a Qualifying Group or Business Restructuring Relief, see Section 5.3.4).102

Where a member of a Tax Group disposes of a Participating Interest in an entity that is not a member of the Tax Group, the Participation Exemption may be available (for further details see Section 8).

Foreign exchange gains or losses in relation to Participating Interest

Article 23(5)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law states that foreign exchange gains in relation to a Participating Interest are exempt, and likewise foreign exchange losses are not


101 Article 23(9) of the Corporate Tax Law.
102 Article 42(9) of the Corporate Tax Law.


deductible. The use of the phrase "in relation to" a Participating Interest means that the foreign exchange gain or loss must arise from, or by reason of, or in connection with the Participation Interest. The following discusses foreign exchange gains or losses which can be considered to arise "in relation to" a Participating Interest.

6.3.1. Increase or decrease in value of Participating Interest due to exchange rate fluctuation

A foreign exchange gain or loss can be realised or unrealised.

A gain or loss realised on the value of a Participating Interest (for example on sale of Participating Interest) will be "in relation to" the Participating Interest and hence excluded from Taxable Income under Article 23(5)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Unrealised foreign exchange gains or losses may arise where a change in the value of an asset due to currency fluctuation is recorded in the Taxable Person's Financial Statements, but no transaction to realise a gain or loss has yet taken place. Taxable Persons, who prepare their Financial Statements on an accrual basis, may elect to take into account gains and losses on a realisation basis.103 The election can either be made so that all unrealised accounting gains and losses are not taken into account,104 or only unrealised gains and losses in relation to those assets and liabilities held on the Taxable Person's capital account.105 In either scenario, unrealised gains and losses may include unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses.106




103 Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 104 Article 20(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 105 Article 20(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 106 Article 20(4)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.


If the Taxable Person has elected to include gains and losses only on a realisation basis, unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses on the value of a Participating Interest will be excluded from Taxable Income under Article 20(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. Accordingly, there is no need for the Participation Exemption to apply. However, if the Taxable Person does not elect to include gains and losses on a realisation basis, unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses on the value of a Participating Interest will be excluded from Taxable Income under the Participation Exemption where the conditions are met.107


Impairment gains or losses

Article 23(5)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law provides for impairment gains or losses in relation to a Participating Interest to be exempt from Corporate Tax.

6.4.1. Deductible impairment loss restricts the availability of the Participation Exemption

Article 23(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law provides that the Participation Exemption does not apply if the Taxable Person has recognised a deductible impairment loss in respect of the Participating Interest prior to that Participating Interest meeting the other conditions of the Participation Exemption regime.




107 Article 23(5)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.


This will apply to reversals of partial impairments on the Participating Interest. It is also applicable in respect of any other income type covered by the Participation Exemption including Dividends and capital gains in respect of a Participating Interest.108

Generally, any income or gain resulting from the reversal of impairments in respect of a Participating Interest would also fall under the Participation Exemption and, therefore, be treated as exempt from Corporate Tax. However, if an impairment loss recognised in relation to a Participating Interest was deductible from Taxable Income (i.e. prior to the ownership interest becoming a qualifying Participating Interest, as otherwise it would not have been deductible), Article 23(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law provides that any subsequent income that would otherwise be exempt under the Participating Exemption is not exempt, up to the amount of the impairment loss that was treated as deductible for Corporate Tax.

Article 23(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law applies to juridical persons that are Resident Persons as well as Non-Resident Persons.


In circumstances where a Taxable Person has made both deductible impairment losses and non-deductible impairment losses, the question arises as to how the impairment losses are matched with any income which might be covered by the Participation Exemption. The wording of Article 23(6) of the Corporate Tax Law is clear that the Participation Exemption does not apply "insofar as" there has been a

108 Article 23(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


deductible impairment loss in respect of the Participating Interest. This means that all deductible impairment losses must be matched with the relevant income/gain in priority to any non-deductible impairment losses.


6.4.2. Impairment loss on loan receivable from a Participation

Article 23(6)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law provides that the Participation Exemption does not apply if the Taxable Person or its Related Party has recognised a deductible impairment loss in respect of a loan receivable from a juridical person in which the Taxable Person or a Related Party of the Taxable Person holds a Participating Interest.

The concept of this clause is similar to impairment losses in respect of Participations according to Article 23(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law (see Section 6.4.1). Any income in relation to the Participation is not exempt from Corporate Tax to the extent that an impairment loss has been deducted for a loan receivable. An example of an impairment loss would be a write-off of a loan receivable, for example. as part of a restructuring measure.





6.4.3. Reversal of impairment loss which has restricted the availability of the Participation Exemption

A reversal of an impairment loss is exempt from Corporate Tax to the extent that the Participation Exemption was not applied to income from a Participating Interest due to a previously deducted impairment loss or impairment losses.109

Interplay between Participation Exemption and Foreign Permanent Establishment Exemption

Where a Resident Person has a Foreign Permanent Establishment, the Resident Person can make an election to not take into account the income or loss and associated expenditure of its Foreign Permanent Establishment in determining its Taxable Income.110

If a Resident Person has elected for the Foreign Permanent Establishment Exemption, then it becomes theoretical whether the Participation Exemption is available in respect of income from a Participating Interest attributable to a Foreign Permanent Establishment. In such instances, the income and associated expenditures of the Foreign Permanent Establishment shall not be taken into account in the calculation of the Taxable Income of the Resident Person. On the other hand, if a Resident Person has not elected for the Foreign Permanent Establishment Exemption, income from a Participation which is attributable to a Foreign Permanent Establishment can benefit from the Participation Exemption if the conditions are satisfied.


109 Article 23(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.
110 Article 24(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.



6.5.1. Impact of Foreign Permanent Establishment Tax Losses

If a Taxable Person has utilised a Tax Loss arising in a Foreign Permanent Establishment and not subsequently included in its Taxable Income the same amount of profit from the Foreign Permanent Establishment, any income arising upon incorporation of the Foreign Permanent Establishment subsequently cannot benefit from the Participation Exemption. This ceases to be the case once profit from the Foreign Permanent Establishment equal to the Tax Loss used by the Taxable Person has been included in the Taxable Person's Taxable Income.111












































111 Article 13 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


7. Expenditure related to Exempt Income

Expenditure related to Exempt Income cannot be taken into account in determining Taxable Income.112 In other words, such expenditure is non-deductible for Corporate Tax purposes, which is symmetrical with the non-taxability of the Exempt Income. Accordingly, expenditure (other than Interest expense113) incurred in relation to income which benefits from the Participation Exemption is not deductible.

Related expenditure

The use of the term "related expenditure" in Article 22 of the Corporate Tax Law indicates that the expense must be in connection with Exempt Income. There should be a clear and direct nexus or connection which can be established between the expense and the Exempt Income. Expenditure which is unrelated to Exempt Income or has a remote or indirect connection with Exempt Income is not subject to disallowance.

In some instances, a Taxable Person incurs a common expense for more than one purpose, i.e. incurred for the purpose of earning both Exempt Income and non-Exempt (i.e. Taxable) Income. The tax treatment of such common expense will be as follows:

* Any part or proportion of a common expense that can be clearly identified as being incurred wholly and exclusively to derive Taxable Income is deductible;114
* Any part or proportion of a common expense that can be clearly identified as being incurred wholly and exclusively to derive Exempt Income is non-deductible;
* Any remaining unidentifiable balance of a common expense shall be apportioned between Taxable Income and Exempt Income on a fair and reasonable basis, having regard to the relevant facts and circumstances of the Taxable Person's Business.115



112 Article 22 and Article 28(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
113 Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.
114 Article 28(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
115 Article 28(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.




Expenditure in relation to a Participating Interest

7.2.1. Expenditure in relation to acquisition and disposal of a Participating Interest

Expenditure incurred in relation to the acquisition, sale, transfer, or disposal of an entire Participating Interest, or part of a Participating Interest, is not tax deductible (with the exception of Interest expense).116 Instead, such costs should be capitalised as part of the cost of the Participating Interest.117 Capitalisation of the expense is required for Corporate Tax purposes regardless of whether such expenses are capitalised in the Financial Statements.

Examples of relevant expenses include, but are not limited to, professional fees, due diligence costs, litigation costs, commissions and brokerage fees, stamp duty, registration duties and other irrecoverable taxes, appraisal and valuation costs, and refinancing costs.118

7.2.2. Expenditure in relation to a failed acquisition of a Participating Interest

Sometimes expenses are incurred with the intention of acquiring a Participating Interest but ultimately the acquisition is not completed. In such a case, since the Participating Interest is not acquired, the expense cannot be said to relate to a Participating Interest. Where the expense is incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of a Taxable Person's Business, the expense may be deductible.119



116 Article 10(1) and Article 10(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
117 Article 10(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
118 Article 10(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.




7.2.3. Other expenditure in relation to a Participating Interest

Other than expenses related to the acquisition and disposal of a Participating Interest, there could be expenses incurred, for example, to manage and administer a Participating Interest. Such expenses which have a direct connection with Exempt Income will not be taken into account in determining Taxable Income, i.e. no deduction is allowed.120

Expenditure in relation to short-term investment in a juridical person that is a Resident Person

Dividend income received from a juridical person that is a Resident Person is exempt with no further conditions.121 However, other income, for example capital gains or losses on the disposal of a Participation Interest in a juridical person that is a Resident Person, is exempt subject to the conditions of the Participation Exemption. In other words, Dividends received from a juridical person that is a Resident Person are exempt, even if the holding in that Person does not qualify as a Participating Interest.

Irrespective of the accounting treatment adopted (i.e. whether or not fees, etc. associated with the acquisition are capitalised, for instance because the asset is held on the trading account for short term buying and selling of securities rather than as a long-term investment), a question can arise as to how much of the expense incurred in acquiring shares of a juridical person that is a Resident Person (which does not qualify as Participating Interest) is non-deductible. This is because the expense can relate partially to Exempt Income and partially to Taxable Income. A Dividend from a juridical person that is a Resident Person is always Exempt Income, but capital gains may be Taxable Income if the conditions of the Participation Exemption are not met.

Accordingly, the expenses related to the acquisition of shares of a juridical person that is a Resident Person may be considered as common expenses towards earning Exempt Income and Taxable Income. As discussed in Section 7.1, the share of expenses relating to Exempt Income, as apportioned on a fair and reasonable basis, will be non-deductible.


Interest expense

Interest paid in relation to Exempt Income, such as that which benefits from the Participation Exemption, is prima facie deductible unlike other expenditure incurred in deriving Exempt Income.122 However, the amount of Interest deductible is also subject to the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule provided in Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law. Broadly, this limits Net Interest Expenditure to 30% of the Taxable Person's accounting earnings before the deduction of Interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation ("EBITDA"), excluding any income that is exempt under the Participation Exemption and other types of Exempt Income. In addition, regardless of whether the Participation Exemption applies, Interest expenditure may not be deductible on a Related Party loan which relates to amongst other things a Dividend from a Related Party.123







































122 Article 29 of the Corporate Tax Law.
123 Article 31(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


8. Tax Groups

Where the conditions of Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law are met, a Taxable Person (referred to as "Parent Company") can make an application to form a Tax Group with one or more Resident Persons (referred to as "Subsidiary") and, therefore, be treated as a single Taxable Person.124

Income from a Participating Interest within a Tax Group

Since all members of a Tax Group are treated as a single Taxable Person, any transactions between members of a Tax Group need to be eliminated when determining its Taxable Income.125 In this context, a Parent Company is required to consolidate the financial results, assets and liabilities of each Subsidiary and prepare consolidated Financial Statements.126

As a result, any income from a Participating Interest in the same Tax Group (for example, Dividend income) will be disregarded when the Parent Company prepares consolidated Financial Statements. Thus, the Participation Exemption is not required or relevant in relation to Dividends or other profit distributions from Subsidiaries within a Tax Group to the extent it is received by a member of the same Tax Group.

Income from a Participating Interest outside a Tax Group

Where a member of a Tax Group receives income from a Participating Interest that is not a member of the Tax Group, the Participation Exemption may be available.

Hence, when determining the consolidated Taxable Income of the Tax Group (after eliminating intra-group transactions), an adjustment should be made for any remaining income and losses which are exempt, including related expenses.

Since a Tax Group is treated as a single Taxable Person, for the application of the Participation Exemption, each condition of Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law must be applied in relation to the entire Tax Group and its members, that is to say on an aggregated basis. This is in line with Article 42(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, which requires the Taxable Income of a Tax Group to be determined by consolidating the financial results, assets and liabilities of its members.






124 Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
125 Article 40(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
126 Article 42(1) and Article 42(11) of the Corporate Tax Law.










Entity name

Place of incorporation/ formation
Place of effective management and control
Whether UAE Resident Person under Article 11
Whether member of the Tax Group under Article 40
Company F
Country X
Country X
No
No (not a UAE resident)
Company A
UAE
UAE
Yes
Yes
Company B
UAE
UAE
Yes
Yes
Company C
Country Y
UAE
Yes
Yes
D LLP
(incorporated partnership)

UAE

UAE

Yes

Yes
Company E
UAE
UAE
Yes
Yes
Company G
Country Z
Country Z
No
No (not a UAE resident)



	
















* Company A acquired 3% of the shares of Company G on 1 June 2024
* Company B acquired 2% of the shares of Company G on 1 December 2024
* Company G paid a Dividend on 1 July 2025

Company A and Company B do not individually satisfy the 5% minimum ownership test in respect of Company G. However, the Tax Group is the Taxable Person in this case, and it satisfies the 5% minimum ownership test considering the aggregation of the ownership interests held by Company A (3%) and Company B (2%). The minimum holding period could be satisfied if the intention is to hold the aggregate 5% for 12 months, i.e. until at least 1 December 2025.

Assuming the other conditions of Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law are met, the Dividend paid by Company G to Company A and Company B is excluded from the Taxable Income of the Tax Group by virtue of the Participation Exemption.





















































127 Article 3(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


9. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
October 2023
* First version

















Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual




Date: 25 July 2023


























Private and Confidential
This document contains information which is confidential and proprietary to the Federal Tax Authority. Any dissemination, distribution, copying, use of or reliance upon the confidential and proprietary information contained herein is unauthorized and strictly prohibited.







Navigating through EmaraTax
The Following Tabs and Buttons are available to help you navigate through this process

Button
Description
In the Portal


This is used to toggle between various personas within the user profile such as Taxable Person, Tax Agent, Tax Agency, Legal Representative etc


This is used to enable the Text to Speech feature of the portal


This is used to toggle between the English and Arabic versions of the portal


This is used to decrease, reset, and increase the screen resolution of the user interface of the portal


This is used to manage the user profile details such as the Name, Registered Email Address, Registered Mobile Number, and Password


This is used to log off from the portal
In the Business Process application
























Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 2


Button
Description


This is used to go the Previous section of the Input Form


This is used to go the Next section of the Input Form


This is used to save the application as draft, so that it can be completed later


This menu on the top gives an overview of the various sections within the form. All the sections need to be completed in order to submit the application for review. The current section is highlighted in Blue and the completed sections are highlighted in green with a check

The Federal Tax Authority offers a range of comprehensive and distinguished electronic services in order to provide the opportunity for taxpayers to benefit from these services in the best and simplest ways.





































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 3


Table of Contents
Document Control Information	2
Navigating through EmaraTax	2
Table of Contents	4
Introduction	5
Login to EmaraTax	6
EmaraTax Taxable Person Dashboard	10
De-Register	11
Instructions and Guidelines	12
De-Registration information	15
Add Buyer/Transferee	20
Review and Declaration	25
Post Application Submission	28
Correspondences	29














































Federal Tax Authority














































Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual














































Page 4


Introduction






















































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 5


Login to EmaraTax






















You can login into the EmaraTax account using your login credentials or using UAE Pass. If you have forgotten your password, you can use the 'Forgot password' feature to reset your password.
































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 6
























If you wish to login via UAE Pass, you will be redirected to UAE Pass portal. On successful UAE Pass login, you will be redirected back to the EmaraTax online user dashboard.



































Federal Tax Authority


Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual


Page 7




















Step
Action

(1)
On successful login, the Taxable Person list screen is displayed. It displays the list of the Taxable Person linked to your EmaraTax user profile.



































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 8




















Step
Action
(1)
Select the Taxable Person from the list and click 'View' to open the dashboard.




































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 9


EmaraTax Taxable Person Dashboard


















Step
Action
(1)
Click 'Actions' on the Corporate Tax tile within the Taxable Person Dashboard to initiate the Corporate
Tax De-Registration application.

































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 10


De-Register


















Step
Action
(1)
Click 'Deregister' to initiate the Corporate Tax De-Registration application.


































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 11


Instructions and Guidelines




















The 'Instructions and Guidelines' page is designed to help you understand certain important requirements relating to Corporate Tax De-Registration in the UAE. It also provides guidance on what information you should have in hand when you are completing the De-Registration application.

































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 12




















Step
Action

(1)
? A screen will appear with instructions and guidelines.
? Read the instructions and guidelines for Corporate Tax De-Registration and mark the checkbox to confirm.


































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 13




















Step
Action
(1)
Click 'Start' to initiate the Corporate Tax De-Registration application.




































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 14


De-Registration information






















? The application has been divided into two sections, each section being represented in the progress bar. The current section will get highlighted in blue color on the progress bar. As you move to the next steps, the completed sections will get highlighted in green color.
? In order to move from one section to the next, all mandatory fields of the current section must be entered. The fields which are optional are marked as optional next to the field name.
? You are requested to ensure that the documents submitted, supports the information entered by you in the application. This would help to avoid any rejection or resubmission of the application later.
? The taxpayer Corporate Tax registration details are pre-populated in the De-Registration application.



























Federal Tax Authority


Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual


Page 15




















Step
Action
(1)
Enter the 'Date of Cessation of Business or Business Activity'.




































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 16




















Step
Action
(1)
Select the 'Reason for Cessation of Business' from the drop down.




































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 17




















Step
Action
(1)
Select the Reason as 'Sale of Business'




































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 18




















Step
Action
(1)
Enter the 'Date of Sale or Transfer of Business'




































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 19


Add Buyer/Transferee


















Step
Action
(1)
Click to 'Add Buyer/Transferee'


































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 20




















Step
Action
(1)
Select 'Natural Person'.




































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 21























Add Buyer/Transferee Details.




































Federal Tax Authority


Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual


Page 22




















Step
Action
(1)
Enter all mandatory information and click on 'Add'.




































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 23




















Step
Action
(1)
After entering the required information, click 'Next Step' to save and proceed to the next section.




































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 24


Review and Declaration





















This section highlights all the details entered by you across the application. You are required to review and submit the application.

































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 25




















Step
Action

(1)
After carefully reviewing all of the information entered on the application, mark the checkbox to declare the correctness of the information provided in the application.



































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 26




















Step
Action
(1)
Click 'Submit' to submit the Corporate Tax De-Registration application.




































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 27


Post Application Submission



























After your application is submitted successfully, a Reference Number is generated for your submitted application. Note this reference number for future communication with the FTA.

What's next?
? Once the De-Registration application is submitted, the FTA shall pre-approve, approve or reject the request and notify the registrant accordingly. Further, the FTA may ask to provide additional supporting documents.
? You may check your application status in the dashboard from time to time. Once the FTA confirms acceptance of your De-Registration application form, you will be notified of the pre- approval.
? You may also be required to submit a final tax return which will be generated by the EmaraTax. You will receive an email and an SMS notification informing you of the status of the application and requesting to complete the payment of the outstanding liabilities.
? Depending on your account balance status you may be required (or entitled) for tax payment (or refund). Please note, you will not be De-Registered unless you've paid all Tax and Administrative Penalties due and filed all Tax Returns including any outstanding returns as well as the final tax return. In case you have credit amount with the FTA, you are required to initiate the Refund process on FTA EmaraTax.
? Read the "What Next" and "Important Notes".


















Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 28


Correspondences






















































Federal Tax Authority

Corporate Tax De-Registration - Taxpayer User Manual

Page 29

	












Corporate Tax - General Guide
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGGCT1

September 2023

	

Contents

1. Glossary	5
2. Introduction	13
Overview	13
Purpose of this guide	13
Who should read this guide?	13
How to use this guide	13
Legislative references	14
Status of this guide	17
3. Getting Additional Help	18
Government support channels	18
4. What is Corporate Tax?	19
Chapter summary	19
What is Corporate Tax?	19
How does Corporate Tax work?	19
5. Who is subject to Corporate Tax?	23
Chapter summary	23
Taxable Persons	23
Resident Taxable Persons	24
5.3.1. Resident juridical persons	24
5.3.2. Effective management and control	24
5.3.3. Resident natural persons	26
5.3.4. Impact of Double Taxation Agreements on Resident Taxable Persons	27
Non-Resident Taxable Persons	28
5.4.1. Non-Resident Person with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE	28
5.4.2. Preparatory and auxiliary activities	29
5.4.3. Non-Resident Person that derives State Sourced Income	29
5.4.4. Non-resident juridical person that has a nexus in the UAE (derives income from UAE Immovable Property)	30
5.4.5. Impact of Double Taxation Agreements on Non-Resident Taxable Persons	31
Free Zone Persons	31
5.5.1. Qualifying Income	32
5.5.2. Excluded Activities	33
5.5.3. Qualifying Activities	34
5.5.4. Adequate substance requirements	34
5.5.5. The de minimis requirement	35
5.5.6. Election to be taxed at the general rates of Corporate Tax	36
Family Foundations	37
Exempt Persons	38
5.7.1. Types of Exempt Persons	38
5.7.2. Automatically Exempt Persons	39
5.7.3. Exempt Persons if they notify the Ministry, and meet relevant conditions	39
5.7.4. Exempt if listed in a Cabinet Decision and meet relevant conditions	41
5.7.5. Exempt Persons upon application to the FTA	43
5.7.6. Registration and record keeping obligations of Exempt Persons	46
6. What is subject to Corporate Tax?	48
Chapter summary	48
Taxable Income	48
6.2.1. Tax Period	49
6.2.2. Adjustments	50
Unrealised gains and losses	50
6.3.1.	Election to use the Realisation Basis	51
Exempt Income	52
6.4.1. Domestic dividends	55
6.4.2. Income exempt under the participation exemption	55
6.4.3. Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption	58
6.4.4. Income from operating aircraft or ships in international transportation	60
Deductions	61
6.5.1. General deductibility rules	61
6.5.2. Wholly and exclusively incurred expenditure	61
6.5.3. Capital expenditure	63
6.5.4. Special rules for the deductibility of certain expenses	64
6.5.5. Non-deductible expenses	71
Transactions between Related Parties and Connected Persons, and transfer pricing rules	72
6.6.1. Related Parties	73
6.6.2. Control	75
6.6.3. Connected Persons	75
6.6.4. Transfer pricing	77
Tax Losses	78
6.7.1. Tax Loss relief	79
6.7.2. Tax Losses and change of ownership	80
6.7.3. Transfer of Tax Losses	81
Determination of Taxable Income	82
Transitional rules	84
7. Reliefs	87
Chapter summary	87
Small business relief	87
Transfers within a Qualifying Group	89
Business restructuring relief	92
8. Special regimes	97
Chapter summary	97
Taxation of partnership and their partners	97
8.2.1. Unincorporated Partnerships	97
8.2.2. Incorporated partnerships	101
8.2.3. Tax treatment of a foreign partnership	101
Tax Group regime	102
8.3.1. Requirements to form a Tax Group	103
8.3.2. Formation and cessation of a Tax Group	103
8.3.3. Joining or leaving a Tax Group	104
8.3.4. Compliance with Corporate Tax requirements	104
8.3.5. Taxable Income of a Tax Group	105
9. How is any Corporate Tax liability calculated?	109
Chapter summary	109
Applicable Corporate Tax rates	109
9.2.1. General tax rates	109
9.2.2. Corporate Tax rates for Qualifying Free Zone Persons	111
9.2.3. Withholding Tax rate	111
Tax credits	112
9.3.1. Requirements for the Withholding Tax Credit	112
9.3.2. Foreign Tax Credit	113
9.3.3. Impact of Double Taxation Agreements on Foreign Tax credits	114
10. Administration of Corporate Tax	115
Chapter Summary	115
Registration and Deregistration	115
Financial Statements	116
Applications and elections	117
Tax Returns and payments	119
Clarifications and assessments	120
Record keeping	120
10.7.1. Exempt Persons	122
10.7.2. How long should records be kept?	122
General anti-abuse rule	122
11. Updates and Amendments	124

1. Glossary

Accounting Income: The accounting net profit or loss for the relevant Tax Period as per the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Accounting Standards: The accounting standards specified in Ministerial No. 114 of 2023.

Accrual Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income when earned and expenditure when incurred.

Auditor: An independent Person licensed and registered by the competent authorities of the UAE, that is appointed and remunerated by a private pension fund or a private social security fund to audit its Financial Statements.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities, conducted by a Person in the course of its business.

Cash Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income and expenditure when cash payments are received and paid.

Commercial Property: Immovable Property or part thereof:
a. used exclusively for a Business or Business Activity.
b. not used as a place of residence or accommodation including hotels, motels, bed and breakfast establishments, serviced apartments and the like.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses.

Corporate Tax Payable: Corporate Tax that has or will become due for payment to the FTA in respect of one or more Tax Periods.


Designated Zone: A designated zone as defined in Federal Decree-Law No. 8 of 2017 on Value Added Tax, and its amendments, and which has been specified as a Free Zone for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law.

Dividend: Any payments or distributions that are declared or paid on or in respect of shares or other rights participating in the profits of the issuer of such shares or rights which do not constitute a return of capital or a return on debt claims, whether such payments or distributions are in cash, securities, or other properties, and whether payable out of profits or retained earnings or from any account or legal reserve or from capital reserve or revenue. This will include any payment or benefit which in substance or effect constitutes a distribution of profits made in connection with the acquisition or redemption or cancellation of shares or termination of other ownership interests or rights or any transaction or arrangement with a Related Party or Connected Person which does not comply with Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Double Taxation Agreement: An international agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Excluded Activities: Any activities determined by a decision issued by the Minister and conducted by a Qualifying Free Zone Person from which non-Qualifying Income is derived.

Exempt Person: A Person exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Extractive Business: The Business or Business Activity of exploring, extracting, removing, or otherwise producing and exploiting the Natural Resources of the UAE, or any interest therein as determined by the Minister.

Federal Government: The government of the UAE.

Financial Asset: Financial asset as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Financial Liability: Financial liability as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.



Financial Year: The Gregorian calendar year, or the twelve-month period for which the Taxable Person prepares Financial Statements.

Foreign Partnership: A relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the laws of a foreign jurisdiction.

Foreign Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence outside the UAE of a Resident Person that is determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed in Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Foreign Tax Credit: Tax paid under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction on income or profits that may be deducted from the Corporate Tax due, in accordance with the conditions of Article 47(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established, or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule: The limitation provided under Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Government Controlled Entity: Any juridical person, directly or indirectly wholly owned and controlled by a Government Entity, as specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Government Entity: The Federal Government, Local Governments, ministries, government departments, government agencies, authorities and public institutions of the Federal Government or Local Governments.

IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.

IFRS for SMEs: International Financial Reporting Standards for small and medium enterprises.


Immovable Property: Means any of the following:
a. Any area of land over which rights or interests or services can be created.
b. Any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed.
c. Any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.

Interest: Any amount accrued or paid for the use of money or credit, including discounts, premiums and profit paid in respect of an Islamic Financial Instrument and other payments economically equivalent to interest, and any other amounts incurred in connection with the raising of finance, excluding payments of the principal amount.

Islamic Financial Instrument: A financial instrument which is in compliance with Sharia principles and is economically equivalent to any instrument provided for under Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023, or a combination thereof.

Licence: A document issued by a Licensing Authority under which a Business or Business Activity is conducted in the UAE.

Licensing Authority: The competent authority concerned with licensing or authorising a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Local Government: Any of the governments of the Member Emirates of the Federation.

Mandated Activity: Any activity conducted by a Government Controlled Entity in accordance with the legal instrument establishing or regulating the entity, that is specified in a decision by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.

Membership and Partner Interests: The equity interests owned by a member or a partner in the juridical person, which entitles the member or the partner to a share of the profits, determined with reference to the member's or the partner's capital contribution, and which may be transferred to others.

Membership or Partnership Capital: The capital paid to a juridical person where the paid capital is divided into membership or partnership interests by a Person in order


to be a member or partner and have the rights of membership or partnership in that juridical person.

Minister: Minister of Finance.

Ministry: Ministry of Finance.

Natural Resources: Water, oil, gas, coal, naturally formed minerals, and other non- renewable, non-living natural resources that may be extracted from the UAE's Territory.

Net Interest Expenditure: The Interest expenditure amount that is in excess of the Interest income amount as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.

Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business: The Business or Business Activity of separating, treating, refining, processing, storing, transporting, marketing or distributing the Natural Resources of the UAE.

Non-Free Zone Person: Any Person who is not a Free Zone Person.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Ordinary Shares: The category of capital stock or equivalent ownership interest, which gives its owner, on a share-by-share basis, equal entitlement to voting rights, profits, and liquidation proceeds.

Parent Company: A Resident Person that can make an application to the FTA to form a Tax Group with one or more Subsidiaries in accordance with Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participating Interest: An ownership interest in the shares or capital of a juridical person that meets the conditions referred to in Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participation: The juridical person in which the Participating Interest is held.

Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.


Personal Investment: Investment activity that a natural person conducts for their personal account that is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022 Issuing the Commercial Transactions Law.

Preferred Shares: The category of capital stock or equity interest which gives its owner priority entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds ahead of owners of Ordinary Shares.

Qualifying Activities: Any activities determined by a decision issued by the Minister and conducted by a Qualifying Free Zone Person from which Qualifying Income is derived.

Qualifying Free Zone Person: A Free Zone Person that meets the conditions of Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law and is subject to Corporate Tax under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Group: Two or more Taxable Persons that meet the conditions of Clause Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Income: Any income derived by a Qualifying Free Zone Person that is subject to Corporate Tax at the rate specified in Article 3(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Infrastructure Project: A project that meets the conditions of Article 14 of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.

Qualifying Infrastructure Project Person: A Resident Person that meets the conditions of Article 14(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.

Qualifying Investment Fund: Any entity whose principal activity is the issuing of investment interests to raise funds or pool investor funds or establish a joint investment fund with the aim of enabling the holder of such an investment interest to benefit from the profits or gains from the entity's acquisition, holding, management or disposal of investments, in accordance with the applicable legislation and when it meets the conditions set out in Article 10 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Public Benefit Entity: Any entity that meets the conditions set out in Article 9 of the Corporate Tax Law and that is listed in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.


Real Estate Investment: Any investment activity conducted by a natural person related to, directly or indirectly, the sale, leasing, sub-leasing, and renting of land or real estate property in the UAE that is not conducted, or does not require to be conducted through a Licence from a Licensing Authority.

Recognised Stock Exchange: Any stock exchange established in the UAE that is licensed and regulated by the relevant competent authority, or any stock exchange established outside the UAE of equal standing.

Redeemable Shares: The category of capital stock or equity interest which the juridical person issuing this instrument has agreed to redeem or buy back from the owner of this instrument at a future date or after a specific event, for a predetermined amount or with reference to a predetermined amount.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.

Ship: Any structures normally operating, or set for operating in maritime navigation regardless of its power and tonnage.

State Sourced Income: Income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE as specified in Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Subsidiary: A Resident Person in which the share capital or Membership or Partnership Capital, as applicable, is held by a Parent Company, in accordance with Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Deregistration: A procedure under which a Person is deregistered for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Group: Two or more Taxable Persons treated as a single Taxable Person according to the conditions of Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Loss: Any negative Taxable Income as calculated under the Corporate Tax Law for a given Tax Period.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.



Tax Registration: A procedure under which a Person registers for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Registration Number: A unique number issued by the FTA to each Person who is registered for Corporate Tax purposes in the UAE.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

Turnover: The gross amount of income derived during a Gregorian calendar year.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.

Unincorporated Partnership: A relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Withholding Tax: Corporate Tax to be withheld from State Sourced Income in accordance with Article 45 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Withholding Tax Credit: The Corporate Tax amount that can be deducted from the Corporate Tax due in accordance with the conditions of Article 46(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


2. Introduction

Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was signed on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on Corporate Tax in the UAE with a view to making the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law as understandable as possible to readers. It provides readers with:

* an overview of the main Corporate Tax rules and procedures, including the determination of the Corporate Tax base, the calculation of Corporate Tax, the filing of Corporate Tax Returns, and other related compliance requirements; and
* assistance with the most common questions businesses might have.

Who should read this guide?

This guide should be read by those who want to know more about the Corporate Tax regime in the UAE. It is intended to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.

This guide is split into chapters by topic. This includes an initial chapter that explains where to seek further assistance should further questions arise based on the content of this guide, or on areas that are not specifically dealt with here.


Subsequent chapters are organised by subject matter to cover the fundamentals of the Corporate Tax regime in the UAE. This includes what Corporate Tax is, who is subject to Corporate Tax, what types of income are taxable, and how a Taxable Person's Corporate Tax liability is calculated. There is also a chapter covering the Corporate Tax administration process, from Tax Registration and record keeping to submitting returns and making payments.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in topic specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Corporate Tax regime function. The examples in the guide:
- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural person.


Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:

* Federal Decree-Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as "Tax Procedures Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 on Organising Reports Submitted by Multinational Companies is referred to as "Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020'';
* Cabinet Decision No. 116 of 2022 on the Determination of Annual Income Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 116 of 2022";
* Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023 Regarding the Qualifying Public Benefit Entities for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023";


* Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 on Specifying the Categories of Businesses or Business Activities Conducted by a Resident or Non-Resident Natural Person that Are Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023";
* Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023 on Determining Qualifying Income for the Qualifying Free Zone Person for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023";
* Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023 on Determination of a Non-Resident Person's Nexus in the State for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023";
* Cabinet Decision No. 75 of 2023 on the Administrative Penalties for Violations Related to the Application of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 75 of 2023";
* Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023 on Conditions for Qualifying Investment Funds for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023"
* Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023 Concerning Exception from Tax Registration for the Purpose of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 68 of 2023 on the Treatment of all Businesses and Business Activities Conducted by a Government Entity as a Single Taxable Person is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 68 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief for the Purposes of the Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023 on the Determination of Categories of Taxable Persons Required to Prepare and Maintain Audited Financial Statements for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 83 of 2023 on the Determination of the Conditions under which the Presence of a Natural Person in the State would not Create a Permanent Establishment for a Non-Resident Person for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 83 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023 on Requirements for Maintaining Transfer Pricing Documentation for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023"


* Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023 on the Determination of the Conditions under which a Person may Continue to be Deemed as an Exempt Person, or Cease to be Deemed as an Exempt Person from a Different Date for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No.115 of 2023 on Private Pension Funds and Private Social Security Funds for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No.115 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023 on the Participation Exemption for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023 on the Adjustments Under the Transitional Rules for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023 on Tax Group for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023 on the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023 on Unincorporated Partnership, Foreign Partnership and Family Foundation for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No.127 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023 on Transfers Within a Qualifying Group for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023 on Business Restructuring Relief for the Purposes of Federal Decree Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No.134 of 2023 on the General Rules for Determining Taxable Income for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023";


* Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023 Regarding Qualifying Activities and Excluded Activities for the Purposes of Federal Decree Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023";
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 5 of 2023 on Conditions for Change in Tax Period for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023";
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 6 of 2023 on Tax Deregistration Timeline for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 6 of 2023"; and
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 7 of 2023 on Provisions of Exemption from Corporate Tax for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023".

Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the provisions relating to the Corporate Tax regime in the UAE. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. Getting Additional Help

Government support channels

The UAE government has made a range of resources available to help the public understand and comply with the Corporate Tax regime. Readers of this guide may find it helpful to refer to the following sources for additional information:

* Ministry of Finance website
* FTA website
* Corporate Tax Law
* Explanatory Guide on Corporate Tax Law
* Corporate Tax FAQs
* Corporate Tax Law Implementing Decisions on the Ministry of Finance and FTA websites
* Corporate Tax FTA Decisions on the FTA website


4. What is Corporate Tax?

Chapter summary

This chapter sets out a brief overview of the core principles of Corporate Tax and how the Corporate Tax system functions as a whole. This provides a foundation for the information given in the following chapters.

What is Corporate Tax?

Corporate Tax is a form of direct tax levied on the Taxable Income of corporations and other Businesses. Corporate Tax is sometimes also referred to as 'Corporate Income Tax' or 'Business Profits Tax' in other jurisdictions.

Corporate Tax is charged on a wide range of Business profits, and those subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE include not only companies but also certain partnerships, unincorporated entities and natural persons conducting a Business or Business Activities.

Corporate Tax is paid on an annual basis with reference to the Tax Period of a Taxable Person. A Tax Period is the Financial Year or part thereof for which a Tax Return needs to be filed. The Financial Year is the period of 12 months for which Financial Statements are prepared.1 Payment of Corporate Tax is due within nine months from the end of the applicable Tax Period.2

The UAE Corporate Tax regime applies to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.3

How does Corporate Tax work?

Taxable Persons are subject to Corporate Tax on their Taxable Income - this is their Accounting Income with certain adjustments made for Corporate Tax purposes.

Generally, Corporate Tax is imposed on Taxable Income at the following rates:
* 0% (zero percent) on the portion of the Taxable Income not exceeding AED 375,000.



1 Article 57 of the Corporate Tax Law. 2 Article 48 of the Corporate Tax Law. 3 Article 69 of the Corporate Tax Law.


* 9% (nine percent) on the portion of the Taxable Income exceeding AED 375,000.

Example 1: Calculation of Corporate Tax

A LLC is a company incorporated in the UAE. In the Tax Period ending March 2025, A LLC generated Revenue of AED 8 million and incurred expenses of AED 2 million, resulting in a net profit of AED 6 million per its Financial Statements.

A LLC's Taxable Income for its Tax Period will be the accounting net profit (or loss) of the business, after making tax adjustments for certain items specified in the Corporate Tax Law. For the purposes of this example, A LLC does not need to make any tax adjustments, thus its Taxable Income will be AED 6 million for the Tax Period.

A LLC's Corporate Tax liability will be calculated as follows:
* The first AED 375,000 of Taxable Income will be subject to Corporate Tax at 0%: AED 375,000 x 0% = AED0

* The portion of the Taxable income exceeding AED 375,000 will be subject to Corporate Tax at 9%: (AED 6,000,000 - AED 375,000) x 9% = AED 5,625,000 x 9% = AED 506,250

A LLC's UAE Corporate Tax liability for the Tax Period will be AED 506,250.

In order to calculate its UAE Corporate Tax payable, A LLC will need to consider if there are any available tax credits to reduce its UAE Corporate Tax liability (see Section 9.3).




Specific rules cover the identification of Taxable Persons subject to Corporate Tax (see Section 5). The rules cover all companies and other legal entities (i.e. juridical persons) as well as individuals (i.e. natural persons) conducting a Business or Business Activity. As the UAE does not have an equivalent tax on the income of natural persons, this approach is intended to provide for a level playing field on the tax


treatment between incorporated businesses and unincorporated businesses undertaken by natural persons.

Employment income and other specific types of income earned by natural persons based in the UAE and natural persons based in foreign jurisdictions, are not within the scope of the UAE Corporate Tax regime (see Section 5.3.3).

Both incorporated and unincorporated businesses, including businesses operated by natural persons, can potentially benefit from small business relief if they meet the relevant requirements. This means that these businesses would not need to pay Corporate Tax (see Section 7.2) but they will be required to meet the compliance obligations provided for in the Corporate Tax Law for each Tax Period. This includes the obligation to register for Corporate Tax purposes, file a Tax Return and retain all relevant documents and records to support their Corporate Tax filings.

Provided that the relevant conditions are met, certain categories of Persons, known as Exempt Persons, are exempt from Corporate Tax, notably:

* Persons that are part of, or operate under the ownership and control of, the Federal Government or the Local Governments of the UAE;
* certain entities that are established for specific public welfare or social aims, such as certain public benefit entities;
* oil and gas and other Natural Resource activities that are taxed at the Emirate- level; and
* certain pensions or social security funds and investment funds.

Further details on Exempt Persons and the relevant qualifying conditions can be found in Section 5.7.

Taxable Persons must calculate their Taxable Income on an annual basis using their accounting net profit or loss for the relevant period as set out in their Financial Statements (i.e. their Accounting Income) as the starting point for this calculation. A number of adjustments should be applied to exclude specific Exempt Income, or to limit the amount of deductions available on expenditure (see Chapter 6).

The Corporate Tax regime also provides for the carry-forward and transfer of available Tax Losses (see Section 6.7), and requires Taxable Persons to specifically account for transactions with Related Parties and Connected Persons using the arm's length principle (see Section 6.6).


A 0% rate of Corporate Tax applies to Qualifying Income earned by certain Free Zone entities (known as Qualifying Free Zone Persons). Further details can be found in Section 5.5 and Section 9.2.2.

The Corporate Tax regime also includes targeted reliefs designed to allow certain intra-group transactions to be undertaken without giving rise to a Corporate Tax liability. These are set out in Chapter 7.

Where Persons conduct Business together, either as groups of companies related by ownership, or as partnerships, special rules may apply for the calculation and payment of Corporate Tax. These are set out in Chapter 8.

Taxable Persons are required to self-assess their Corporate Tax liabilities by submitting a Tax Return on an annual basis and to pay the Corporate Tax liability to the FTA. Tax Returns must be filed and payments made within nine months from the end of the Taxable Person's Tax Period (see Section 10.5).

Other key aspects of the administration of Corporate Tax are set out in Chapter 10.


5. Who is subject to Corporate Tax?

Chapter summary

This chapter provides an overview of who is subject to Corporate Tax and who is specifically exempted. The chapter sets out the types of Persons that are subject to Corporate Tax and the activities that are within scope of the tax. It covers the main exemptions that apply to certain types of entities, such as Government Entities or Qualifying Public Benefit Entities. It also sets out treatments that apply to Free Zone businesses, and Family Foundations.

Taxable Persons

Persons subject to Corporate Tax are known as Taxable Persons.4 Taxable Persons are either Resident Persons or Non-Resident Persons as defined under Article 11 of the Corporate Tax Law.5

In broad terms, Corporate Tax applies to:

* Juridical persons (such as corporations) that are incorporated in the UAE or foreign juridical persons that are effectively managed and controlled in the UAE (see Section 5.3.1);6
* Non-resident juridical persons (foreign juridical entities) that have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE (see Section 5.4.1);7
* Non-Resident Persons deriving State Sourced Income (see Section 5.4.3);8
* Non-resident juridical persons that have a 'nexus' in the UAE by virtue of earning income from Immovable Property in the UAE (see Section 5.4.4);9 and
* Natural persons who conduct Business or Business Activities in the UAE and have a Turnover of over AED 1,000,000 per Gregorian calendar year from such Business or Business Activities (see Section 5.3.3).10






4 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
5 Article 11(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
6 Article 11(3)(a) and 11(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
7 Article 11(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
8 Article 11(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
9 Article 11(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law and Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
10 Article 11(3)(c) and 11(6) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.


Resident Taxable Persons

There are specific rules for determining whether natural persons and juridical persons are Resident Persons for Corporate Tax purposes.

5.3.1. Resident juridical persons

A juridical person refers to an entity incorporated or otherwise established or recognised under the laws and regulations of the UAE, or under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction, that has a legal personality separate from its founders, owners and directors. Separate legal personality means that the entity has its own rights, obligations and liabilities distinct from its founders or owners.

A juridical person is a Resident Person for the purposes of Corporate Tax if it is either:

* incorporated or otherwise established or recognised in the UAE (this includes juridical persons incorporated, established or otherwise registered in Free Zones);11 or
* incorporated or otherwise established or recognised outside the UAE but is effectively managed and controlled in the UAE.12

Examples of juridical persons that are incorporated or otherwise established or recognised in the UAE include Joint Liability Companies, Limited Partnership Companies, Limited Liability Companies (LLCs), Public Joint Stock Companies (PJSCs), Private Joint Stock Companies (PJSCs), foundations, trusts that have been established under the UAE mainland legislation, and other entity forms that have a separate legal personality under the applicable UAE mainland legislation or Free Zone regulations. UAE branches of a domestic or foreign juridical person are regarded as an extension of their head office and, therefore, are not considered separate juridical persons.13

5.3.2. Effective management and control

Determining residence for Corporate Tax purposes solely on the basis of place of incorporation may not reflect the economic reality of where the business is actually managed or controlled. Accordingly, determination of residence for Corporate Tax purposes will take into account whether the juridical person incorporated or otherwise recognised in a foreign jurisdiction is effectively managed and controlled in the UAE,


11 Article 11(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 12 Article 11(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 13 Article 11(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


in line with tax regimes in other countries that apply the concepts of "central management and control" and "place of effective management" rules for this same purpose.

Whether a juridical person is effectively managed and controlled in the UAE needs to be determined with regard to the specific facts and circumstances of the juridical person and its activities. A key factor is where key management and commercial decisions that are necessary for the conduct of the juridical person's Business are in substance made. This could be the place where the highest level of decisions that are essential for the management of the juridical person are made, or where decisions that play a leading part in the management of a company from an economic and functional perspective are made. Typically, this will be where a company's board of directors (or any equivalent body for other types of juridical persons) makes these decisions.

However, depending on the specific facts and circumstances, other factors such as where the controlling shareholders make decisions, the location of another Person or body to which the board has delegated its decision-making powers, or the location where the board members or executive management of the juridical person reside may also need to be considered. It is important to note that there can only be one place of effective management and control at any one time.

For a juridical person to be considered effectively managed and controlled in the UAE, it is not necessary for its board members (or equivalent) to be resident in the UAE.



5.3.3. Resident natural persons

Residence for Corporate Tax purposes is not determined by where a natural person resides or is domiciled. For natural persons, residence for Corporate Tax purposes is concerned with the person's business connection to the UAE. It is this connection, rather than other factors such as nationality or where a person is physically present, that gives the UAE the powers to levy Corporate Tax on an individual's Business or Business Activity.

This approach means, for example, that natural persons conducting Businesses or Business Activities in the UAE are Resident Persons for Corporate Tax irrespective of their nationality, whether they hold a residency visa in the UAE, whether their income is sourced in the UAE or from abroad, or how much time they may physically spend in the UAE.

Specifically, Corporate Tax only applies to natural persons who are engaged in Businesses or Business Activities in the UAE and earn Turnover from these Businesses or Business Activities in excess of AED 1,000,000 in a Gregorian calendar year.14 This includes sole establishments and individual partners in Unincorporated Partnerships that conduct a Business or Business Activity in the UAE (see Section 8.2.1). A sole establishment is a trading Business owned by a natural person, where the proprietor is not separate from the Business. This is because of the direct relationship and control of the natural person over the Business and their unlimited liability for the Business' debts and other obligations. In such case the natural person trades in his own name instead of through a separate legal entity.

Business is defined as any economic activity, whether continuous or for a set period of time, conducted by any Person.15 It is implied in the definition that the activity is conducted with the intention of generating profits, and that some system and organisation exist for the activity conducted. However, a Business or Business Activity does not necessarily need to make a profit.

The definition includes any industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional or service activity, excavation activity and any other activity of an independent character related to the use of tangible and intangible property. This should be interpreted broadly to include any activity related to the development, sale, production, manufacturing, exploitation, marketing or distribution of physical and intangible properties.



14 Article 11(3)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
15 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.


The term "vocational" is to be interpreted as a skilled craft or trade, and "profession" is an occupation in which skill is applied to the affairs of others to meet their needs. Common examples of professional activities include accountancy, consulting, architecture, medical and legal services.

Whilst Business includes vocational, commercial, industrial and professional activities, it does not include employment, and Corporate Tax does not apply to a natural person's salary, wages and other employment income. It also does not include income from Personal Investments and Real Estate Investments.16

In this regard, Personal Investments are activities that a natural person undertakes in their personal capacity and not through a Licence (or not required to be undertaken through a Licence), and the activities are not considered a commercial business under Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022 issuing the Commercial Transactions Law.17

Real Estate Investments are activities undertaken by an individual in relation to the direct or indirect sale, lease, sub-lease and rental of land or real estate property in the UAE that are not conducted through a Licence (or are not required to be conducted through a Licence).18

Although a Business is typically carried on continuously and there is repetition of commercial activity, the definition allows for a short-term commercial activity to be considered a Business for Corporate Tax purposes.

For further details on taxable Business or Business Activities for natural Persons, readers are advised to consult Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 on Specifying the Categories of Businesses or Business Activities Conducted by a Resident or Non- Resident Natural Person that are Subject to Corporate Tax.

5.3.4. Impact of Double Taxation Agreements on Resident Taxable Persons

In some cases, due to cross-border activities, a Person may be resident for Corporate Tax purposes in more than one jurisdiction. For example, a company may be incorporated in one jurisdiction but effectively managed and controlled in another. If these criteria are used, as in the UAE, to determine the tax residence of a juridical person, this company would be tax resident in both jurisdictions.



16 Article 2(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
17 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
18 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.


In instances where there is an in-force Double Taxation Agreement between the UAE and that other jurisdiction, this agreement will, in general, contain provisions to determine where that Person would be considered as resident. These provisions take precedence over the treatment under the Corporate Tax Law and its implementing decisions.19

In general, Double Taxation Agreements include rules to solve dual residence situations for juridical persons either based on the place of effective management criterion or through the mutual agreement procedure.

Non-Resident Taxable Persons

A juridical person is subject to Corporate Tax if it is not a Resident Person under the conditions above, but either:
* has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE; or20
* derives State Sourced Income (subject to a 0% Withholding Tax); or21
* earns income from Immovable Property in the UAE.22

5.4.1. Non-Resident Person with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE

The concept of a Permanent Establishment is used in tax regimes across the world to determine if and when a foreign juridical person has established sufficient presence in a country to warrant the direct taxation of their profits in that country. Generally, a country only has the right to tax the profits of a foreign business if that business has a Permanent Establishment in that country.

A Non-Resident Person may have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE if:

* they conduct a Business through a fixed or permanent place in the UAE.23 This could for example include an office, a factory or a building site lasting for more than 6 months where the Business is wholly or partly conducted; or
* another Person has and habitually exercises an authority to conduct a Business or Business Activity in the UAE on behalf of the Non-Resident Person.24 This includes situations where the Person concludes contracts in the UAE on behalf of the Non-Resident Person or negotiates contracts without the need for any

19 Article 66 of the Corporate Tax Law.
20 Article 11(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
21 Article 11(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
22 Article 11(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
23 Article 14(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
24 Article 14(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


material modification by the Non-Resident Person. For example, where a Business regularly sends out sales representatives to the UAE who agree and sign contracts in the UAE.25

5.4.2. Preparatory and auxiliary activities

A Non-Resident Person is not considered to have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE if the activities conducted through the fixed place of business are of a preparatory and auxiliary nature.26 For the purpose of assessing whether the activities of a Non- Resident Person are of a preparatory and auxiliary nature, the mere physical presence of a natural person in the UAE will not automatically create a Permanent Establishment for a Non-Resident Person. The circumstances in which the physical presence of a natural person would not result in a Permanent Establishment include where such presence is a consequence of a temporary and exceptional situation.27

The presence of a natural Person in the UAE shall be considered a consequence of a temporary and exceptional situation where all of the following conditions are met:28

* The presence of the natural person in the UAE is a consequence of exceptional circumstances of a public or private nature.
* The exceptional circumstances cannot reasonably be predicted by the natural person or the Non-Resident Person.
* The natural person did not express any intention to remain in the UAE when the exceptional circumstances end.
* The Non-Resident Person does not have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE before the occurrence of the exceptional circumstances.
* The Non-Resident Person did not consider that the natural person is creating a Permanent Establishment or deriving income in the UAE as per the tax legislation applicable in other jurisdictions.

5.4.3. Non-Resident Person that derives State Sourced Income

Any Person that is a Non-Resident Person and receives State Sourced Income is subject to Corporate Tax on this income by way of Withholding Tax if the income is not attributable to a Permanent Establishment of the Non-Resident Person in the UAE.29

25 Article 14(5) of the Corporate Tax Law. 26 Article 14(3)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 27 Article 14(7)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
28 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 83 of 2023.
29 Article 12(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Income is considered to be State Sourced if:
* it is derived from a Resident Person;30 or
* it is derived from a Non-Resident Person in connection with the Non-Resident Person's Permanent Establishment in the UAE;31 or
* it is derived from activities or contracts performed in the UAE, assets located in the UAE, capital invested, rights used, or services performed or benefitted from in the UAE.32

State Sourced Income may include:
* income from the sale of goods in the UAE;33
* income from movable or Immovable Property in the UAE;34 or
* income from the disposal of shares of a Resident Person.35

In instances where a Non-Resident Person earns State Sourced Income only and where this income is not attributable to a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, the income is currently subject to a 0% Withholding Tax. Practically, this means no Corporate Tax liability arises in this situation.

5.4.4. Non-resident juridical person that has a nexus in the UAE (derives income from UAE Immovable Property)

Corporate Tax is also applicable when there is a nexus between a Non-Resident juridical person and the UAE. The nexus is the connecting link for Corporate Tax purposes.

Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023 specifies that when any Non-Resident juridical person earns income from Immovable Property in the UAE, the Non-Resident juridical person will have a nexus in the UAE.36 As a result, Non-Resident juridical persons are subject to Corporate Tax on income attributable to the Immovable Property in the UAE.37

Immovable Property includes rights over areas of land, buildings, structures, or engineering work permanently attached to land or seabed, or any fixture or equipment

30 Article 13(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 31 Article 13(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 32 Article 13(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 33 Article 13(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 34 Article 13(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 35 Article 13(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.
36 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
37 Article 12(3)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.


which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to a building, structure, engineering work or seabed.38 Taxable Income attributable to Immovable Property includes income derived from a right in rem, sale, disposal, assignment, direct use, letting (including subletting) and any other form of exploitation of Immovable Property.39

5.4.5. Impact of Double Taxation Agreements on Non-Resident Taxable Persons

In some situations, related to cross-border activities, double taxation may occur due to the overlap in the taxing rights claimed by different jurisdictions.

The definition of Permanent Establishment in the Corporate Tax Law generally follows the principles provided in Article 5 of the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and Capital. A Non-Resident Person may need to consider these principles and the relevant provisions of any Double Taxation Agreement between the country of residence of the Non-Resident Person and the UAE, in their assessment of whether they have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

If a Non-Resident Person has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE under a specific Double Taxation Agreement, the primary taxing rights on the income earned from the activity of the Permanent Establishment will be allocated to the UAE, as the source State. However, each case will need to be determined considering the nature of the Business of the Non-Resident Person and its own facts and circumstances, as well as the terms of the applicable Double Taxation Agreement.

In instances where the terms of a Double Taxation Agreement are inconsistent with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law, the terms of the Double Taxation Agreement would prevail.40

Free Zone Persons

When a Free Zone Person meets certain conditions, it will be considered as a Qualifying Free Zone Person and is eligible for a 0% Corporate Tax rate on its Qualifying Income.41 The 0% Corporate Tax rate is available to Qualifying Free Zone



38 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
39 Article 2(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
40 Article 66 of the Corporate Tax Law.
41 Article 3(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Persons until the expiry of the tax incentive period provided for in the legislation of the relevant Free Zone (unless renewed).42

In order to be considered as a Qualifying Free Zone Person, a Free Zone Person must meet the following requirements:

* derive Qualifying Income from relevant transactions (see Section 5.5.1);43
* maintain adequate substance in the UAE (see Section 5.5.4);44
* satisfy the de minimis requirement (see Section 5.5.5);45
* have not elected to be subject to Corporate Tax (see Section 5.5.6);46
* comply with the transfer pricing rules and documentation requirements under the Corporate Tax Law;47 and
* prepare and maintain audited Financial Statements for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law.48

The Minister may prescribe additional conditions to be met by a Free Zone Person in order to be considered as a Qualifying Free Zone Person.49

For further details on the Free Zone Corporate Tax regime, readers are advised to consult Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023 on Determining Qualifying Income for the Qualifying Free Zone Person50 and the Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023 Regarding Qualifying Activities and Excluded Activities.51

5.5.1. Qualifying Income

Qualifying Income is the income that can benefit from the 0% Corporate Tax rate.

Unlike ordinary Taxable Persons, Qualifying Free Zone Persons are not entitled to a 0% rate on their first AED 375,000 of Taxable Income that is not considered as Qualifying Income. Therefore, any Taxable Income that is not Qualifying Income will be taxed at the general rate of 9% (see Section 9.2.2).

42 Article 18(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
43 Article 18(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 3 of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.
44 Article 18(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law
45 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.
46 Article 18(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
47 Article 18(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
48 Article 5(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.
49 Article 18(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.
50 Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.
51 Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.


Qualifying Income includes:52

* Income derived from transactions with other Free Zone Persons, except for income derived from Excluded Activities;53
* Income derived from transactions with any Non-Free Zone Person, domestic and foreign, only in the case of Qualifying Activities that are not Excluded Activities; and
* Any other income where the de minimis requirement is satisfied.

For further details on Qualifying Income, readers are advised to consult Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023 on Determining Qualifying Income for the Qualifying Free Zone Person and Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023 Regarding Qualifying Activities and Excluded Activities.

5.5.2. Excluded Activities

Qualifying Income does not include income derived from Excluded Activities.54 The Excluded Activities are listed in Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023 Regarding Qualifying Activities and Excluded Activities, and include:55

* Transactions with natural persons, except in relation to certain Qualifying Activities;
* Banking, insurance, finance and leasing activities that are subject to the relevant regulatory oversight of the relevant competent authority in the UAE, except for certain exceptions;
* Ownership or exploitation of UAE immovable property, other than Commercial Property located in a Free Zone provided such activity in relation to Immovable Property located in a Free Zone is conducted with other Free Zone Persons;
* Ownership or exploitation of intellectual property assets; and
* Activities that are ancillary (which serve no independent function) to the above activities.








52 Article 3(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.
53 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.
54 Article 3(1)(a) and (b) of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.
55 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.


5.5.3. Qualifying Activities

Qualifying Income includes income derived from transactions with Non-Free Zone Persons only in respect of Qualifying Activities. 56 These activities are defined in Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023, and include:57

* Manufacturing of goods or materials;
* Processing of goods or materials;
* Holding of shares and other securities;
* Ownership, management and operation of Ships;
* Reinsurance services subject to the regulatory oversight of the relevant competent authority in the UAE;
* Fund management services subject to the regulatory oversight by the relevant competent authority in the UAE;
* Wealth and investment management services subject to the regulatory oversight by the relevant competent authority in the UAE;
* Headquarter services to Related Parties;
* Treasury and financing services to Related Parties;
* Financing and leasing of Aircraft, including engines and rotable components;
* Distribution of goods or materials in or from a Designated Zone to a customer that resells such goods or materials, or parts thereof or processes or alters such goods or materials or parts thereof for the purposes of sale or resale;
* Logistics services; and
* Any ancillary activities (which serve no independent function) to the above activities.

5.5.4. Adequate substance requirements

To meet the adequate substance requirements, a Free Zone Person must have their core-income generating activities (e.g. the activities that are of central importance) performed within the Free Zone, these can be undertaken by the Free Zone Person or outsourced to a Related Party or third party who is located in a Free Zone. The Qualifying Free Zone Person must also have adequate supervision over any activities that are outsourced to a Free Zone Related Party or third party.58

The Qualifying Free Zone Person (or its outsourced party) must be able to demonstrate that it has adequate staff and assets, and that it incurs adequate operating expenditures within the Free Zone.

56 Article 3(1)(b) of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.
57 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.
58 Article 7 of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.


As businesses vary, 'adequate substance' is determined on a case-by-case basis, following the test criteria. This may include the number of qualified full-time employees, adequate operating expenditure and physical assets. In any case, the analysis also takes into account the nature and level of activities performed by the Qualifying Free Zone Person, the Qualifying Income earned, and any other relevant facts and circumstances.

5.5.5. The de minimis requirement

For a Free Zone Person to be a Qualifying Free Zone Person, the de minimis requirements must be met.59

The de minimis requirements are met where the non-qualifying Revenue in a Tax Period does not exceed the lower of:60

* AED 5,000,000; and
* 5% of total Revenue (calculated as total amount of non-qualifying Revenue total Revenue).

The de minimis requirement allows a Qualifying Free Zone Person to earn a small or incidental amount of non-qualifying Income without being disqualified from the Free Zone Corporate Tax regime.61 Where the requirement has been met, income that does not fulfil the first two categories of Qualifying Income (see Section 5.5.1) will be treated as Qualifying Income.62

The total amount of non-qualifying Revenue as well as the amount of total Revenue (for the second limb of the de minimis requirement) are adjusted for by removing the following Revenues:

* Revenue attributable to a domestic or foreign Permanent Establishment of the Qualifying Free Zone Person;63 and
* Revenue attributable to the following transactions:
o Transactions with Non-Free Zone Persons in respect of Commercial Property located in a Free Zone;64 and


59 Article 5(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.
60 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.
61 Article 4 of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.
62 Article 3(1)(c) of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.
63 Article 4(3)(b) of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.
64 Article 4(3)(a)(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.


o Transactions with any Persons in respect of Immovable Property that is not Commercial Property located in a Free Zone.65

5.5.6. Election to be taxed at the general rates of Corporate Tax

A Qualifying Free Zone Person can elect to be taxed at the general rates of Corporate Tax.66 The election will be effective from either the commencement of the Tax Period in which the election is made, or the commencement of the following Tax Period and for the following four Tax Periods, after which the election can be made again.67

In addition, if a Qualifying Free Zone Person fails to meet any of the conditions above at any particular time during a Tax Period, it will cease to be eligible for the 0% Corporate Tax rate from the beginning of that Tax Period and will be taxed at the general rates of Corporate Tax for five Tax Periods starting with the Tax Period in which the conditions have not been met.68

A Free Zone Person that makes an election to be taxed at the general rates of Corporate Tax will cease to be, or not become, a Qualifying Free Zone Person, as they no longer satisfy the conditions. As a result, restrictions from applying certain provisions of the Corporate Tax Law will no longer apply. This means, for example, that the Free Zone Person can become a member of a Tax Group or elect for the small business relief subject to meeting the relevant conditions.










65 Article 4(3)(a)(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.
66 Article 19(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
67 Articles 18(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.
68 Article 18(2) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.





Family Foundations

There are a number of different structures that are used to manage personal wealth and investments for asset protection, succession, philanthropic and other reasons. These include, for example, a contractual trust, a private trust company or a foundation to hold and manage personal assets and investments.

Whilst some of these structures and arrangements are by default treated as fiscally transparent for Corporate Tax purposes, some types of trusts and foundations have a separate legal personality, such as foundations established in ADGM or DIFC. These types of entities are treated the same as any other juridical person, with their income being within the scope of Corporate Tax. Where these types of entities are merely used to hold and manage personal assets and wealth on behalf and for the benefit of beneficiaries who are natural persons, this will result in an inconsistent Corporate Tax


treatment compared with if instead the natural persons were to hold and manage the assets directly.

Therefore, entities that are considered as "Family Foundations" for Corporate Tax purposes can, subject to meeting certain conditions, apply to the FTA to be treated as an Unincorporated Partnership (see Section 8.2.1).69 If the application is approved, the Family Foundation will be treated as tax transparent and the beneficiaries would be seen as directly owning or benefiting from the activities and assets of the Family Foundation. Where the FTA approves this application, the Family Foundation shall be treated as an Unincorporated Partnership effective from the commencement of the Tax Period in which the application is made, or from the commencement of a future Tax Period, or any other date determined by the Authority.

Exempt Persons

5.7.1. Types of Exempt Persons

Exemptions from Corporate Tax are provided for particular Persons where there are strong public interest and policy justifications for not subjecting them to tax. These Persons are known as "Exempt Persons".70

Exempt Persons fall into one of four categories:

* Automatically Exempt Persons: Government Entities;
* Exempt if they notify the Ministry of Finance, and meet relevant conditions: Extractive Businesses and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses;
* Exempt if listed in a Cabinet Decision and meet relevant conditions: Government Controlled Entities and Qualifying Public Benefit Entities; and
* Exempt upon application to, and approval by, the FTA:71
o Public and private pension or social security funds;
o Qualifying Investment Funds;
o Juridical persons incorporated in the UAE that are wholly owned and controlled by certain Exempt Persons; and
o Any other Person as may be determined in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.





69 Article 17(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023.
70 Article 4(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
71 FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023.


If an Exempt Person no longer meets the criteria for exemption, generally, they cease to be an Exempt Person from the beginning of the Tax Period in which they no longer meet the criteria and will be subject to Corporate Tax on all of their Taxable Income.72 In certain temporary and unforeseen circumstances, the Person can make an application to the FTA to continue to be treated as an Exempt Person, despite temporarily not meeting the criteria for exemption.73

5.7.2. Automatically Exempt Persons

This category covers Government Entities which include the Federal Government, Local Governments, government departments, government agencies, authorities and public institutions of the Federal Government or Local Governments.

Government Entities are essentially considered administrative bodies that carry out government functions under the control of the UAE Federal Government or Emirate- level Governments. It is internationally common for a government to exempt its own activities from taxation, as those activities are generally conducted as part of their governmental and public duties.

Government Entities are exempt automatically, meaning that they do not have to apply to the FTA for exempt status as long as they meet the necessary requirements.74

However, a Government Entity shall be subject to Corporate Tax if it conducts a Business or Business Activity under a Licence issued by a Licensing Authority. Any Business or Business Activity conducted by a Government Entity under a Licence issued by a Licensing Authority shall be treated as an independent Business, and the entity will be subject to Corporate Tax in relation to that licensed Business or Business Activity and will be required to register for Corporate Tax.75

5.7.3. Exempt Persons if they notify the Ministry, and meet relevant conditions

This category includes both Extractive Businesses and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses. Where these Businesses meet the relevant conditions, they will be exempt from Corporate Tax.76 Where an Extractive Business or Non-Extractive

72 Article 4(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
73 Article 4(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law and Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
74 Article 5(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
75 Article 5(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
76 Article 7(1) and Article 8(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Natural Resource Business conducts an independent Business that is not ancillary to its ordinary business and this Business accounts for more than 5% of their total Revenue, it will be required to register with the FTA for Corporate Tax.77

The UAE Constitution considers the Natural Resources in each Emirate to be the public property of that Emirate, and Persons engaged in the extraction and exploitation of Natural Resources are typically subject to some form of Emirate-level taxation. Accordingly, if certain conditions are met, Persons engaged in the Extractive Business and/or Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business are exempt from Corporate Tax.

An Extractive Business involves the activity of exploring, extracting, removing or otherwise producing and exploiting Natural Resources; 78 in the context of the Corporate Tax Law, a Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business involves the steps which take a Natural Resource product from its raw, extracted form to its final point of sale.79

The rules for Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses are similar to those for Extractive Businesses. In each case, a Person is exempt from Corporate Tax if they:

* have a right, concession or Licence issued by a Local Government to undertake their Extractive Business or Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business;80
* are effectively subject to tax under the applicable legislation of an Emirate;81 and
* have notified the Ministry of Finance of their Exempt Person status and their compliance with the applicable conditions.82

A Person is considered effectively subject to tax under the applicable legislation of the Emirate if the Local Government imposes a tax on income or profits, a royalty or revenue tax, or any other form of tax, charge, levy or fiscal measures in respect of such Person's Extractive or Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business.83


77 Article 7(3) and Article 8(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
78 In this instance, "Natural Resources" are defined as water, oil, gas, coal, naturally formed minerals and other non-renewable, non-living natural resources that may be extracted from the UAE's Territory. This means renewable resources, such as solar energy, wind, animals, and plant materials are not considered "Natural Resources" for the purpose of assessing whether a Person may be exempt from Corporate Tax under Articles 4(1)(c) or 4(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
79 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
80 Articles 7(1)(a) and 8(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 81 Articles 7(1)(b) and 8(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 82 Articles 7(1)(c) and 8(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 83 Articles 7(6) and 8(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Additionally, a Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business must not derive income from Persons outside of the scope of Corporate Tax (e.g. natural persons who do not undertake a Business or Business Activity).84 This limits the exemption to Businesses that engage solely in transactions with other businesses, as opposed to with an end customer or consumer.

Thus, if the Person derives income from any person who is not within the scope of the Corporate Tax Law (e.g. natural persons who do not undertake a Business or Business Activity) or from any other Person that is not a business or other organised entity, this exemption from Corporate Tax will not be available.

5.7.4. Exempt if listed in a Cabinet Decision and meet relevant conditions

Government Controlled Entities

Government Controlled Entities are juridical persons that are directly or indirectly wholly owned and controlled by one or more Government Entities and are listed in a Cabinet Decision.

Government Controlled Entities need to be wholly owned and controlled by a Government Entity. Such entities may be set up where, for reasons of accountability or management, these entities need to be legally separated from the Government Entity.

A Mandated Activity is any activity conducted by a Government Controlled Entity in accordance with the legal instrument establishing or regulating the entity, that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet. Not all activities of a Government Controlled Entity would automatically be considered a Mandated Activity. If a Government Controlled Entity conducts Business or Business Activities that is not its mandated activities, it shall be subject Corporate Tax on those Business or Business Activities.

Qualifying Public Benefit Entities

Qualifying Public Benefit Entities that meet the necessary requirements can apply to the Ministry to be listed in a Cabinet Decision and be exempt from Corporate Tax. Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023 has been published and lists all entities considered as Qualifying Public Benefit Entities.





84 Article 8(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Qualifying Public Benefit Entities play a critical role in the social and cultural fabric of the UAE. In recognition of this, these entities can be exempt from Corporate Tax, provided they meet certain conditions.

In order to be exempt from Corporate Tax, public benefit entities must be established and operated either:

* Exclusively for a public benefit activity. The Corporate Tax Law sets out a non- exhaustive list of 'worthy purpose categories' that may entitle a public benefit entity to this exemption. The categories are umbrella terms that would cover any related public benefit activities: religious, charitable, scientific, artistic, cultural, athletic, educational, healthcare, environmental, humanitarian, animal protection or other similar purposes;85 or
* As a professional entity, chamber of commerce, or similar entity operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare or public benefit.86

Additionally, in order to be exempt from Corporate Tax, the entity must:

* Not conduct a Business or Business Activity, except for activities which are directly related to the entity's charitable or public benefit purpose;87
* Use its income and assets solely for the purposes for which it was established, or as payment for necessary and reasonable expenditure;88 and
* Not use any of its income or assets for the personal benefit of its shareholders, members, trustees, founders or settlors (except where its shareholders, members, trustees, founders or settlors are Qualifying Public Benefit Entities, Government Entities or Government Controlled Entities).89

If a public benefit entity meets these conditions, it will need to apply to the Ministry of Finance to be listed in a Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023 Regarding the Qualifying Public Benefit Entities and become a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity. A Qualifying Public Benefit Entity will be exempt from Corporate Tax from the beginning of the Tax Period in which it is listed in a relevant Cabinet Decision.90

For the purposes of monitoring compliance with the exemption requirements, the FTA may request any relevant information or records from a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity

85 Article 9(1)(a)(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 86 Article 9(1)(a)(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 87 Article 9(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
88 Article 9(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 89 Article 9(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 90 Article 9(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


to verify that the entity continues to meet the relevant conditions to be exempt from Corporate Tax. 91 The information requested must be provided within the timeline specified by the FTA 92 and may include, for example, books and records to demonstrate that the resources of the Qualifying Public Benefit Entity were used only for its stated public benefit purpose, copies of agreements entered into by the Qualifying Public Benefit Entity, and details of its employees, officers and fiduciaries. The list of Qualifying Public Benefit Entities will be updated periodically, if needed, to add or remove entities from the existing list.93

For further details on Qualifying Public Benefit Entities, readers are advised to consult Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023 on Qualifying Public Benefit Entities.94

5.7.5. Exempt Persons upon application to the FTA

The following Persons are exempt from Corporate Tax where an application has been approved by the FTA, demonstrating that they meet the necessary requirements:95

* A public pension fund or social security fund, or a private pension fund or social security fund that is subject to regulatory oversight of the competent authority in the UAE and meets certain conditions;96
* A Qualifying Investment Fund,97 and
* A juridical person incorporated in the UAE that is wholly owned (directly or indirectly) and controlled by the following Exempt Person:98
o a Government Entity,
o a Government Controlled Entity,
o a Qualifying Investment Fund that meets the relevant conditions specified in Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023;
o a public pension fund or social security fund; or
o a private pension, fund or social security fund that meets the relevant conditions specified in Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.







91 Article 9(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
92 Article 9(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
93 Article 3 of Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023.
94 Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023.
95 Article 4(3) of the Corporate Tax Law and FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023.
96 Article 4(1)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
97 Article 4(1)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law.
98 Article 4(1)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Public pension funds and social security funds

Public pension funds and social security funds are typically initiated, sponsored and governed by a Federal or Local Government Entity. However, as the entitlement to receive the benefits from these funds and any surplus assets of the fund normally rests with the beneficiaries, they are not typically considered to be wholly owned and controlled by the Government Entity which oversees them.

Recognising their importance, public pension funds and social security funds can make an application to the FTA to be exempt from Corporate Tax.

Private pension and social security funds

The same Exempt Person status may be available to certain private pension funds or social security funds that meet the relevant conditions following an application to and approval by the FTA to be exempt from Corporate Tax.99

To be eligible for exemption from Corporate Tax, these private pension funds and social security funds need to be subject to regulatory oversight of a competent authority in the UAE, and must have a pool of assets that have been designated as "pension plan assets" or "fund assets" by law or a contract governing the establishment and operation of the funds.100

These assets must be solely used to finance the pension plan benefits or end of service benefit.101

Additionally, the plan members/beneficiaries must have a right or a contractual claim or entitlement to the assets or earnings of the fund.102

The fund must have an Auditor, which is required to confirm annually that the requirements for the fund to be exempt have been complied with.103

Income received by the fund can only come from:104




99 Article 4(1)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law.
100 Article 4(1)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law and Articles 2(1) and 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
101 Articles 2(1) and 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
102 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
103 Articles 2(4) and 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
104 Articles 2(3), 3(2) and 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.


* investments or deposits held solely for the benefit of the fund and the investments do not constitute a Business operated by the fund;
* underwriting commissions charged for the fund;
* rebates given to fund managers that are not considered payment for their services; or
* any other income earned through investments for the benefit of plan members or beneficiaries.

For further details on how private pension funds or social security funds may be exempt from Corporate Tax, readers are advised to consult Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023 on Private Pension Funds and Private Social Security Funds.

Qualifying Investment funds

The UAE is a leading asset and wealth management hub, and offers a range of investment fund regimes and fund vehicles that cater to a wide variety of fund manager and investor requirements.

Whilst there are various structures that collective investment funds may take, the term 'investment fund' refers to a contractual arrangement or legal entity whose primary purpose is to pool investor funds and invest such funds in accordance with a defined investment policy.

Regardless of the type of investment fund, the Corporate Tax Law seeks to ensure the tax neutrality of investment funds so that investors, whether domestic or foreign, are in the same or a similar tax position as if they had invested directly in the underlying assets of the fund. In recognition of the neutrality principle, an investment fund that meets the relevant conditions can make an application to the FTA for exemption from Corporate Tax as a Qualifying Investment Fund.105

In order to qualify for exemption, the investment fund must meet all of the following conditions:

* The fund or its manager must be subject to the regulatory oversight of a UAE or foreign competent authority;106
* Interests in the fund must be traded on a Recognised Stock Exchange, or must be marketed and made available sufficiently widely to investors;107 and


105 Article 10(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 106 Article 10(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 107 Article 10(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* The main or principal purpose of the fund is not to avoid Corporate Tax.108

In addition, depending on the types of investment funds, readers are advised to consult on the additional conditions specified in Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023 On Conditions for Qualifying Investment Funds.

5.7.6. Registration and record keeping obligations of Exempt Persons

There is no requirement for Government Entities, Government Controlled Entities, Extractive Businesses and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses to register with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes, if they do not have a Business or Business Activity that is subject to Corporate Tax.109 However, Exempt Persons are required to maintain records which evidence their exempt status for 7 years from the end of the Tax Period to which they relate. 110 This includes any information, accounts, documents and records to enable the Exempt Person's status to be readily ascertained by the FTA.

Although ordinarily exempt, Government Entities, Government Controlled Entities, Persons engaged in Extractive Businesses that meet the conditions under Article 7 of the Corporate Tax Law, and Persons engaged in Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses that meet the conditions under Article 8 of the Corporate Tax Law, may sometimes conduct Business that is within the scope of Corporate Tax.

For example, this occurs when a Government Entity has a Licence to conduct a commercial activity in its own name.111 This could be, for example, in order to enter into partnership with a private sector Business to develop infrastructure, or in order to sell goods or services. These licensed activities are treated as if they are an independent Business and, insofar as the relevant taxable Business Activity is concerned, the Exempt Person will be treated as if they were a Taxable Person and subject to the obligations set out in the Corporate Tax Law, including, for example, to register for Corporate Tax and file a Tax Return in relation to their taxable Business or Business Activity.112







108 Article 10(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
109 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023.
110 Article 56(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
111 Article 5(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
112 Articles 5(3) and 5(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.





6. What is subject to Corporate Tax?

Chapter summary

This chapter introduces the key concept of Taxable Income and explains how it is calculated. It provides details on exempt forms of income, allowable deductions and reliefs and the adjustments needed to determine the final Taxable Income amount. It also includes a description of transactions and arrangements between Related Parties and Connected Persons, including an explanation of the arm's length principle and the application of transfer pricing rules. This chapter also covers the treatment of Tax Losses and transitional rules.

Taxable Income

All tax laws define what is subject to tax, known as the tax base. For Corporate Tax purposes, the tax base is a Taxable Person's Taxable Income. The Taxable income is determined as follows:

* Resident Persons are subject to Corporate Tax on their income from both inside and outside the UAE.
* Non-Resident Persons with a Permanent Establishment or a nexus in the UAE are subject to Corporate Tax on income attributable to that Permanent Establishment or nexus. If the Non-Resident does not have a Permanent Establishment or a nexus in the UAE but derives income from the UAE, that income would be subject to withholding tax at the rate of 0%.
* Natural persons are only subject to Corporate Tax on the Taxable Income of their Business or Business Activity derived from the UAE, or from outside the UAE if it is connected to the Business or Business Activity being carried out in the UAE.

Taxable Income is determined by applying the adjustments set out in Section 6.2.2 to a Taxable Person's annual Accounting Income, which should be taken from the Financial Statements that are produced in accordance with accepted accounting standards. Accounting standards that are accepted in the UAE for Corporate Tax purposes are the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), or IFRS for small and medium-sized entities (IFRS for SMEs) for a Taxable Person with Revenue of AED 50,000,000 or less in the relevant Tax Period.113

For those that already maintain accepted Financial Statements, these can be used in calculating Taxable Income and, provided evidence is maintained regarding any

113 Article 20(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.


adjustments made, generally, there is no need to maintain two sets of records. This limits administrative burdens and ensures consistency in reporting.

For some businesses, becoming subject to Corporate Tax may involve new requirements to maintain Financial Statements, although there are certain administrative simplifications to support these businesses and manage such burdens. For example, eligible businesses may benefit from small business relief, meaning they do not need to calculate their Taxable Income and have reduced record keeping requirements (see Section 7.2).114

Taxable Persons can prepare Financial Statements using the Cash Basis of Accounting rather than the Accrual Basis of Accounting if their Revenue does not exceed AED 3,000,000 for the relevant Tax Period.115 Businesses may also be able to apply to the FTA to make use of the Cash Basis of Accounting rather than the Accrual Basis of Accounting in exceptional circumstances.116

6.2.1. Tax Period

A Taxable Person's (other than a natural person) Tax Period is their Financial Year, or part thereof, for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.117 This is usually the 12 month period for which they prepare their Financial Statements. If the Taxable Person does not prepare Financial Statements, their Financial Year will be the Gregorian calendar year (i.e. 1 January - 31 December).118 The Tax Period of a Taxable Person which is a natural person is always the Gregorian calendar year.

If a Taxable Person wishes to change their Tax Period, they can make an application to the FTA to change the start and end date of their Tax Period. 119 This can be particularly relevant for Taxable Persons (whether incorporated in the UAE or elsewhere) that form part of a multinational group to avoid having to prepare two sets of accounts based on different periods.

For further details on change in Tax Period, readers are advised to consult FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023 on Conditions for Change in Tax Period.




114 Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law.
115 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
116 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
117 Article 57(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 118 Article 57(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 119 Article 58 of the Corporate Tax Law.


6.2.2. Adjustments

The following adjustments should be considered in relation to a Taxable Person's Accounting Income to determine their Taxable Income:

* Unrealised gains or losses;120
* Exempt Income;121
* Deductions;122
* Reliefs for specific transaction types;123
* Transfer pricing adjustments relating to transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons;124 and
* Tax Losses.125

Further detail on each of these adjustments is provided below.

Other adjustments may be required in other specific cases, such as when determining the Taxable Income in relation to:

* Transfers within a Qualifying Group,
* Claiming business restructuring relief, and
* A partner in an Unincorporated Partnership.126

Unrealised gains and losses

It is common for assets or liabilities held by a Business to change in value for accounting purposes even where no actual transactions have taken place. For example, assets on the balance sheet may be revalued, or holdings of foreign currencies or loan liabilities denominated in a foreign currency may fluctuate with exchange rates.

As the value of an asset or liability changes, gains or losses could arise even where there has been no actual disposal or transfer (i.e. "realisation") of the asset or liability. Thus, where an asset has appreciated (i.e. increased in value) without being realised (e.g. sold), a Taxable Person could face potential tax liabilities despite receiving no

120 Article 20(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 121 Article 20(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 122 Article 20(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 123 Article 20(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 124 Article 20(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 125 Article 20(2)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law.
126 Article 6 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


cash payment that could be used to fund the tax liability. A similar (but opposite) consideration also arises in relation to the Taxable Person's liabilities.

Taxable Persons are required to include any realised or unrealised gains and losses reported in the Financial Statements in the calculation of their Taxable Income, if they would not subsequently be recognised in their income statement.127 This is unless they make the election to use the realisation basis as outlined in Section 6.3.1.

6.3.1.	Election to use the Realisation Basis

For the purpose of calculating their Taxable Income, businesses who prepare their Financial Statements using the Accrual Basis of Accounting may elect to take into account gains and losses on a realisation basis.128 Broadly, this election can be made either in relation to all assets and liabilities that are subject to fair value or impairment accounting under the applicable accounting standards (i.e. IFRS or IFRS for SMEs), or just those that are classified as capital under IFRS or IFRS for SMEs.129

Where the election has been made, the Taxable Person must exclude any unrealised gains and losses when the value of a non-Financial Asset changes.130

Additionally, where the election has been made, the Taxable Person will also exclude any change in the value of a liability or a Financial Asset when calculating gains or losses, unless they are calculating the gain or the loss upon the realisation of the liability or the Financial Asset.131

Upon realisation of the asset or liability, the Taxable Person will need to include any amounts that were not previously taken into account for Corporate Tax purposes as a result of the adjustments mentioned above.132

Realisation includes selling or disposing of the asset or liability, transferring it, settling it, or writing it off in accordance with the accounting standards applied by the Taxable Person (i.e. IFRS or IFRS for SMEs).133




127 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
128 Article 8(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
129 Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
130 Articles 2(3)(a) and 2(4)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023. 131 Articles 2(3)(b) and 2(4)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023. 132 Articles 2(3)(c) and 2(4)(c) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023. 133 Article 9(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


The decision to make, or not make, an election to apply the realisation basis must be made by the Taxable Person during their first Tax Period, and will be deemed irrevocable except under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to approval by the FTA.134 If the Taxable Person does not make the election to apply the realisation basis in their first Tax Period then this will be considered an irrevocable election in itself.



Exempt Income

Several exemptions are provided for within the Corporate Tax regime.135 The purpose of these exemptions is to either:
* exempt income and capital gains arising from the activity of another juridical person or a foreign branch on the basis that it has already been taxed; or

134 Article 8(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
135 Articles 22 to 25 of the Corporate Tax Law.


* align the UAE Corporate Tax treatment with international standards, and in particular in relation to the taxation of international transportation.

These exemptions are symmetrical: any expenditure incurred in deriving Exempt Income cannot be deducted for Corporate Tax purposes.136 If expenditure is incurred for deriving both Taxable Income and Exempt Income, it must be apportioned, so that only the proportion of expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for deriving Taxable Income will be deductible. If the proportion is not identifiable, then an appropriate proportion can be deducted if determined on a 'fair and reasonable' basis, having regard to all relevant facts and circumstances.137

What is fair and reasonable will depend on the circumstances and facts of each case. In many cases, there will be more than one method of apportioning expenses which is fair and reasonable to use. The fair and reasonable approach chosen should accurately reflect the underlying activity, should not be unnecessarily burdensome and complex for the Taxable Person to determine and justify, and for the FTA to understand and review.

Specific rules determine whether or not exemptions apply in particular circumstances. These are discussed in more detail below.


136 Article 28(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
137 Article 28(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


When calculating its Taxable Income, C LLC cannot claim the deduction of the total cost of the legal services. This is because some of the legal work related to the Foreign Permanent Establishments and, as the income from these are exempted from Corporate Tax due to the election made by C LLC, any related expenditure must also be excluded from the calculation of Taxable Income.

Only the proportion of expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for deriving Taxable Income will be deductible. However, C LLC pays a fixed fee for legal services and the expenditure incurred in relation to its Taxable Income cannot be identified. It is therefore necessary to determine an appropriate proportion on a fair and reasonable basis.

As C LLC can identify the proportion of contracts which were sent for review in relation to its Taxable Income and Exempt Income generating activities, one of the possible ways that C LLC could determine the amount of the legal costs that would be deductible could be to apportion the expenditure according to the split of Taxable Income and Exempt Income generating activities based on the number of contracts. In other words, when calculating its Taxable Income, C LLC could claim a deduction of AED 8,500,000 (AED 12,000,000 x 85/120) related to its Taxable Income generating activity and consider the remaining AED 3,500,000 of legal expenses as attributable to Exempt Income earned by the Foreign Permanent Establishments and, therefore, not deductible.

The above approach assumes that the amount of work associated with each contract is equal. If, for example, C LLC received an itemised statement showing the amount of time their legal advisors spent on each contract, the legal fee could be apportioned according to the time spent on each contract. If the itemised statement revealed that the foreign contracts were more complex, and the legal advisors spent half of their time (and, therefore, half of the fees) reviewing the 35 foreign contracts, C LLC could claim a deduction of AED 6,000,000 (AED 12,000,000 x 50%), and consider the remaining AED 6,000,000 of legal expenses as attributable to Exempt Income earned by the Foreign Permanent Establishments and, therefore, not deductible.

These are just two illustrative ways that C LLC could apportion the legal fees and, depending on the facts and circumstances. Other methods may also be considered appropriate.


6.4.1. Domestic dividends

Dividends, and other profit distributions, received from a Resident Person are exempt from Corporate Tax. There are no additional conditions a Taxable Person has to meet in order to benefit from this exemption.138

This reflects a distinction between payments a juridical person makes in order to earn its profits, and distributions it makes out of its profits which will already have been taxed under the Corporate Tax regime. This exemption also covers distributions made by a Resident Free Zone juridical person (whether qualifying or not) to another Resident Person.


6.4.2. Income exempt under the participation exemption

Distributions received from foreign juridical persons

Dividends and other profit distributions received from foreign juridical persons are exempt from Corporate Tax if the recipient has a Participating Interest in the foreign company.139 A Participating Interest is a significant long-term ownership interest in the shares or capital of a juridical person (the "Participation") that provides the basis for the exercise of some level of control or influence over the activities of the Participation. A Participating Interest exists where all of the following conditions are met:

138 Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
139 Article 22(2) and 22(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.



* The Taxable Person has an ownership interest of 5% or greater in the shares or capital of the Participation which has been held, or is intended to be held, for a period of at least 12 months;140
* The Taxable Person is entitled to at least 5% of distributable profits and at least 5% of liquidation proceeds of the Participation;141
* No more than 50% of the Participation's assets consist of ownership interests that would not have qualified for an exemption from Corporate Tax if they were held directly by the Taxable Person.142
* The Participation is subject to Corporate Tax, or a similar tax, in the country in which it is resident at a rate of at least 9% (i.e. the "subject to tax" requirement).143 A Participation is considered to meet this requirement for a given Tax Period when it is resident for tax purposes in a foreign jurisdiction throughout this same Tax Period, and:144
o that jurisdiction has a headline statutory tax rate of at least 9%, or
o it can demonstrate that it is subject to an effective tax on profits, income or equity of at least 9% in that jurisdiction.

The relief applies to various types of ownership interests. 145 Ownership interest includes holding any one or a combination of the following instruments:146

* Ordinary Shares;
* Preferred Shares;
* Redeemable Shares;
* Membership and Partner Interests; and
* Other types of securities, capital contributions and rights that entitle the owner to receive profits and liquidation proceeds.

In addition, an ownership interest with a historical acquisition cost of AED 4,000,000 or greater can qualify for the participation exemption.147





140 Article 23(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 141 Article 23(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 142 Article 23(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 143 Article 23(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
144 Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
145 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
146 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
147 Article 8 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


The participation exemption will not apply if, under the Corporate Tax legislation applicable in the foreign jurisdiction, the Participation can claim a deduction for the dividend or other distributions made to the Taxable Person.148

Example 11: Exempt income from a Participating Interest

J LLC, a UAE resident company buys a 10% shareholding in K LLC, a juridical person resident in Country A and fully subject to tax in Country A, in the Tax Period ending 31 December 2025 for AED 1,000,000. This 10% shareholding entitles J LLC to receive 10% of K LLC's distributable profits and 10% of liquidation proceeds (if K LLC is liquidated).

In the Tax Period ending 31 December 2026, J LLC receives AED 14,000,000 in cash dividends from K LLC. The dividends will be exempt under the participation exemption.

In the Tax Period ending 31 December 2027, J LLC sells part of its shareholding in K LLC, after which it is left with a 3% shareholding in K LLC. The disposal will be exempt under the participation exemption.

In the Tax Period ending 31 December 2028, J LLC receives AED 3,000,000 in cash dividends from K LLC. This dividend will not be exempt because the conditions for the Participating Interest are no longer satisfied (i.e. holding 5% or greater, or acquisition cost in excess of AED 4,000,000 in the shareholding and being entitled to receive at least 5% of K LLC's distributable profits and liquidation proceeds of K LLC).

Participation exemption for other income and gains

Other income and gains may also be exempt if they are derived from a Participating Interest. This applies to holdings in both Resident and Non-Resident Participations. The requirements for a Participating Interest in both a Resident and Non-Resident are the same, save that in relation to a Participation Interest in a Resident, a Participation in a Qualifying Free Zone Person or an Exempt Person is considered to meet the subject to tax requirement.149 If a Taxable Person holds a Participating Interest for a period of at least 12 months, or has the intention to do so, it will be exempt from Corporate Tax on:





148 Article 23(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
149 Article 23(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* Gains or losses on the transfer, sale, or other disposition of the whole or part of the Participating Interest;150
* Foreign exchange gains or losses in relation to a Participating Interest;151 and
* Impairment gains or losses in relation to a Participating Interest.152

Expenditure incurred in relation to the acquisition, transfer, sale, or other disposition of the whole or part of the Participating Interest will not be deductible.153 This includes professional fees, due diligence costs, litigation costs, commissions and brokerage fees, and other associated costs.154

Only income received by the Taxable Person in their capacity as a shareholder (i.e. as an owner of the ownership interest) can be exempt. Other income earned from the Participation from other relations, such as that of a debtor-creditor (e.g. Interest income received) or buyer-seller (e.g. service fee received), will remain subject to Corporate Tax.155

For further details on the participation exemption, readers are advised to consult Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023 on Participation Exemption.156

6.4.3. Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption

To eliminate or reduce potential international double taxation, a Resident Person can make an election when determining its Taxable Income to have income derived from Foreign Permanent Establishments exempted from Corporate Tax in the UAE.157

Where such an election is made, the Resident Person will not need to include the following items in their Taxable Income:

* Income, and associated expenditure, in any of its Foreign Permanent Establishments;158 and
* Losses in any of its Foreign Permanent Establishments.159

150 Article 23(5)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 151 Article 23(5)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 152 Article 23(5)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
153 Article 10(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
154 Article 10(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
155 Article 11 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
156 Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
157 Article 24(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 158 Article 24(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 159 Article 24(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


In addition, any Foreign Tax Credit that would have been available if the election had not been made will not be available to be used by the Resident Person.160

In determining income and associated expenditure, a Resident Person and its Foreign Permanent Establishments must be treated as separate and independent Businesses. Any transactions which take place between them must be treated as having taken place at Market Value.161

In the case of deciding to exclude the income, expenses and losses of the Foreign Permanent Establishments from the calculation of Taxable Income, the election will only apply to the Resident Person's Foreign Permanent Establishments which are subject to Corporate Tax, or a tax of a similar character to Corporate Tax, in the relevant foreign country at a rate of not less than 9% (i.e. the "subject to tax requirement").162

The election must apply to all foreign Permanent Establishments that meet the subject to tax requirement.163 A Resident Person may not elect to apply the exemption for specific Permanent Establishments.














Country
Country A
Country B
Country C
Gross	Income (AED)
750,000
2,550,000
3,700,000
Expenditure (AED)
200,000
3,400,000
1,750,000






160 Article 24(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
161 Articles 24(4) and 24(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
162 Article 24(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.
163 Article 24(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Establishments in Country A and Country B are subject to tax similar in character to Corporate Tax at a rate of more than 9% in their respective countries, the corporate income tax rate in Country C is 5%. This is below the Corporate Tax threshold and means that the income and expenditure related to K LLC's Foreign Permanent Establishment in Country C will remain part of its Taxable Income. The exemption does not apply in this case.

Even though the Foreign Permanent Establishment in Country A made a profit in the Tax Period, whilst the Foreign Permanent Establishment in Country B made a loss, K LLC must apply the exemption to all its Foreign Permanent Establishments that meet the "subject to tax" requirement. It cannot select solely to include the losses from Country B without including the profits from Country A.

K LLC Taxable Income
15,600,000

Less
Country	A	Permanent Establishment Income
750,000
Country	B	Permanent Establishment Income
2,550,000

Plus
Country	A	Permanent Establishment Expenditure
200,000
Country	B	Permanent Establishment Expenditure
3,400,000

Equals
K LLC final Taxable Income
15,900,000

6.4.4. Income from operating aircraft or ships in international transportation

The UAE is a major international logistics and transportation hub and, in recognition of this, income earned by a Non-Resident Person from the operation of aircraft or ships


in international transportation is exempt from Corporate Tax if certain conditions are met.164

In this regard, the Non-Resident Person should be in the Business of:

* International transport of passengers, livestock, mail, parcels, merchandise or goods by air or sea;
* Leasing or chartering aircrafts or ships used in international transportation; or
* Leasing of equipment which is integral to the seaworthiness of ships or airworthiness of aircrafts used in international transportation.165

In addition, the exemption only applies if the country in which the Non-Resident Person resides provides an equivalent exemption from Corporate Tax, or a similar tax, to UAE Resident Persons engaged in the operation of aircraft or ships in international transportation.166 This is known as the "reciprocity" principle and is consistent with international norms in the taxation of international transportation.

Deductions

6.5.1. General deductibility rules

Accounting Income is calculated by deducting a business's expenditure from the Revenue generated in the same period. However, not all expenditure recognised under general accounting rules is deductible for Corporate Tax purposes. Non- deductible expenditure will need to be added back to Accounting Income when calculating Taxable Income.

The general rule is that expenditure must be incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the Taxable Person's Business and must not be capital in nature for the expenditure to be deductible for Corporate Tax purposes. 167 Additional specific deduction rules are applicable for entertainment and Interest expenditure.

6.5.2. Wholly and exclusively incurred expenditure

It is necessary to consider the purpose for incurring the expenditure to assess whether it can be deducted for Corporate Tax purposes. For it to be fully deductible, the expenditure needs to be incurred "wholly and exclusively" for Business purposes,

164 Article 25 of the Corporate Tax Law. 165 Article 25(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 166 Article 25(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 167 Article 28(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


which means that the full amount has been incurred solely for these purposes. If the expenditure is incurred for non-Business purposes, then it must be added back when calculating Taxable Income.168


If expenditure is incurred partly for Business purposes and partly for some other purposes, the amount must be apportioned so that only the part relating to the derivation of Taxable Income will be allowed as a deduction. This includes any identifiable part or proportion of the expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for Business purposes, as well as an amount that has been apportioned determined on a fair and reasonable basis.169

What is fair and reasonable will depend on the circumstances and facts of each case. In many cases, there would be more than one method of apportioning expenses which is fair and reasonable to use. The fair and reasonable approach chosen should accurately reflect the underlying activity, should not be unnecessarily burdensome and complex for the Taxable Person to determine and justify, and for the FTA to understand and review.


168 Article 28(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
169 Article 28(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.




6.5.3. Capital expenditure

Capital expenditure is expenditure that creates an enduring benefit to a business and is not deductible for Corporate Tax purposes. This is in contrast to revenue expenditure which supports the day-to-day operations of the business. For example, purchasing a long-term asset like machinery would be a capital expense but paying for routine maintenance to keep the machinery running would be a revenue expense. The question of whether expenditure is of a capital or revenue nature will depend on the particular facts and circumstances, and will need to be determined on a case by case basis.

While capital expenditure is not deductible, the depreciation of the costs of capital assets is a deductible expense for Corporate Tax purposes. Depreciation is an accounting concept which allows for the cost of an asset to be spread over the life of the asset (representing the reduction of the asset's value), even though there is no cash outlay to the business.





6.5.4. Special rules for the deductibility of certain expenses

Interest expenditure

Businesses regularly borrow money and take out loans for a wide variety of reasons, for example to purchase business assets, to meet costs, or increase working capital. As a result, Interest is a common business expense.

Interest expenditure can be deducted when calculating Taxable Income for the Tax Period in which it is incurred.170 However, there are some limitations on the deduction of Interest expenditure.171



170 Article 29 of the Corporate Tax Law.
171 Articles 30 and 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.


General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule

The Corporate Tax Law refers to the amount of Interest that is deductible as Net Interest Expenditure. Net Interest Expenditure is the difference between the amount of Interest expenditure incurred (including any carried forward Net Interest Expenditure) and the Interest income derived during a Tax Period.172

When the Net Interest Expenditure exceeds AED 12,000,000 in a Tax Period, the amount of deductible Net Interest Expenditure is the greater of:

* 30% of EBITDA (earnings before the deduction of Interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) for a Tax Period, calculated as the Taxable Income for the Tax Period with adjustments for:173
o Net Interest Expenditure for the relevant Tax Period,
o Depreciation and amortisation expenditure taken into account in determining the Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period, and
o Any Interest income or expenditure relating to historical financial assets or liabilities held prior to 9 December 2022.
and,
* the de minimis threshold of AED 12,000,000.174

This is known as the "General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule".

For the purpose of the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule, any amount on Islamic Financial Instruments that is economically equivalent to Interest under a conventional financing arrangement will be treated as Interest.175

Any Net Interest Expenditure disallowed in a Tax Period by the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule can be carried forward and utilised in the subsequent 10 Tax Periods in the order in which the amount was incurred, subject to the same conditions.176

The General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule does not apply to:

* Banks;177

172 Article 30(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
173 Article 30(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 9(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
174 Article 8 of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
175 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
176 Article 30(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
177 Article 30(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* Insurance Providers;178 or
* Natural persons undertaking a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.179

In addition, Resident Persons who are responsible for, or who facilitate the provision, maintenance, or operation of Qualifying Infrastructure Projects, i.e. specific long-term infrastructure projects that meet the following conditions, shall not be subject to the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule in relation to Net Interest Expenditure incurred from the financing of these projects. A project will be considered as a Qualifying Infrastructure Project where all the following conditions are met:180

* It is exclusively for the public benefit of the UAE;
* It is exclusively for the purposes of providing transport, utilities, education, healthcare or any other service within the UAE as may be specified by the Minister;
* Its assets may not be disposed of at the discretion of the relevant Qualifying Infrastructure Project Person;
* The assets provided, operated or maintained by the project should last, or be expected to last for at least ten years, or another period as may be specified by the Minister;
* The project assets are situated in UAE's Territory;
* All of the project's Interest income and Interest expenditure arise in the UAE; and
* The project satisfies any other conditions that may be prescribed by the Minister.

If Net Interest Expenditure is below the AED 12,000,000 de minimis threshold for a Tax Period, the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule does not apply.181 This means that, subject to the provision of Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law, the full amount of Interest expenditure incurred in a Tax Period can be deducted.

Additionally, limitations on the deduction of Interest may impact the commerciality of some financing arrangements. As such, financing arrangements agreed prior to the publication date of the Corporate Tax Law (i.e. 9 December 2022), and that meet the other conditions specified in Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023, are not subject to the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule restrictions.182



178 Article 30(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
179 Article 30(6)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
180 Article 14(c) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
181 Article 8(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
182 Article 11 of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.


Example 17: General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule

C LLC has Revenue of AED 150,000,000, adjusted EBITDA of AED 130,000,000 and Profit Before Tax of AED 60,000,000 for its Financial Year ending 31 December 2025. In 2025, C LLC incurs costs including Interest expenditure of AED 80,000,000. C LLC also receives Interest income of AED 30,000,000, resulting in a Net Interest Expenditure of AED 50,000,000.

C LLC may deduct its Net Interest Expenditure of AED 50,000,000 up to the greater of 30% of its adjusted EBITDA or the de minimis of AED 12,000,000. 30% of C LLC's adjusted EBITDA of AED 130,000,000 would be AED 39,000,000, which is above the de minimis and, hence, is the maximum deductible Net Interest Expenditure in 2025.

C LLC's total Net Interest Expenditure in 2025 is AED 50,000,000 and C LLC may only deduct AED 39,000,000 of Net Interest Expenditure in this Tax Period. AED 11,000,000 of Net Interest Expenditure would be disallowed in 2025 and carried forward to the subsequent Tax Periods (up to 10 Tax Periods).

In the Financial Year ending 31 December 2026, C LLC had Revenue of AED 200,000,000, adjusted EBITDA of AED 180,000,000 and Profit Before Tax of AED 140,000,000. C LLC incurs Interest expenditure of AED 80,000,000 and also receives Interest income of AED 60,000,000, resulting in a Net Interest Expenditure of AED 20,000,000 for 2026.

In 2026, 30% of C LLC's adjusted EBITDA of AED 180,000,000 would be AED 54,000,000, which is above the de minimis and, hence, is the maximum deductible Net Interest Expenditure in 2026. C LLC can deduct all of its Net Interest Expenditure in the period of AED 20,000,000, as well as an additional amount up to AED 34,000,000 of Net Interest Expenditure in the period. Hence, it may utilise its carried forward Net Interest Expenditure of AED 11,000,000 from 2025 and further reduce its Taxable Income in 2026. This would result in a Taxable Income of AED 129,000,000 for 2026.




Specific Interest deduction limitation

No deduction is allowed for Interest expenditure incurred on a loan obtained, directly or indirectly, from a Related Party in respect of any of the following transactions:

* A dividend or profit distribution to a Related Party;183

183 Article 31(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* A redemption, repurchase, reduction or return of share capital to a Related Party;184
* A capital contribution to a Related Party;185 or
* The acquisition of an ownership Interest in a Business that is, or becomes, a Related Party following the acquisition.186

The purpose of this provision is to prevent the Corporate Tax base from being eroded by transactions and arrangements between Taxable Persons and their Related Parties for the sole or main purpose of creating deductible interest expenditure where the income derived from the relevant transaction or arrangement can benefit from an exemption from Corporate Tax.

Whilst generally these deductions are not allowable for Corporate Tax purposes, the deduction restriction does not apply if the Taxable Person can demonstrate that the main purpose of obtaining the loan and carrying out the transaction is not to gain a Corporate Tax advantage. 187 This will be based on the specific facts and circumstances applicable to each transaction. However, if it can be demonstrated that the Related Party receiving the Interest is subject to Corporate Tax or a similar tax in a foreign country at a rate of at least 9% on the Interest income, then no Corporate Tax advantage will be deemed to have arisen.188


184 Article 31(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 185 Article 31(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 186 Article 31(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 187 Article 31(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
188 Article 31(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


M LLC's EBITDA in Tax Period ending December 2026 was AED 55,000,000. The total Interest expenditure in the Tax Period was AED 18,000,000 and no Interest was earned. Additionally, M LLC had AED 7,500,000 of Net Interest Expenditure carried forward from the previous Tax Period ending December 2025.

In line with the rules on deductions for Interest expenditure, M LLC can only deduct Net Interest Expenditure if it is less than 30% of EBITDA. This means that M LLC can deduct up to the greater of 30% of its adjusted EBITDA or the de minimis of AED 12,000,000. 30% of M LLC's adjusted EBITDA of AED 55,000,000 would be AED 16,500,000, which is above the de minimis and, hence, is the maximum deductible Net Interest Expenditure.

When determining Net Interest Expenditure, any disallowable expenditure must be excluded.

Given that C LLC obtained the loan from Q LLC to make a dividend payment, the interest on this loan is disallowed automatically by Article 31 of the Corporate Tax Law, unless the taxpayer can show that the main purpose of obtaining this loan is not to gain a Corporate Tax advantage. M LLC did not obtain the loan on an arm's length basis, and based on the facts above, the only reason M LLC obtained a loan was to claim interest and reduce its taxable income

Thus, this amount must be excluded and no deduction can be claimed for Corporate Tax purposes. M LLC's Net Interest Expenditure for the Tax Period ending December 2026 is, therefore, AED 14,000,000 (AED 18,000,000 - AED 4,000,000).

As M LLC's Net Interest Expenditure of AED 14,000,000 is lower than the limit of AED 16,500,000, the brought forward Net Interest Expense can be utilised at the amount of AED 2,500,000 (AED 16,500,000 - AED 14,000,000). The carried forward Net Interest Expenditure is then reduced to AED 5,000,000 (AED 7,500,000 - AED 2,500,000). The maximum amount M LLC can claim as a deduction for Net Interest Expenditure in the Tax Period ending December 2026 is AED 16,500,000.

Given that the Net Interest Expenditure is AED 14,000,000, and M LLC was allowed to utilise AED 16,500,000, a further deduction of AED 2,500,000 is made from Accounting Income when calculating its Taxable Income. As above, the disallowed AED 4,000,000 will also be adjusted for.

The remaining carried forward Net Interest Expenditure amount of AED 5,000,000 can be carried forward and deducted in the subsequent 10 Tax Periods after the interest expenditure arose in the order in which the amount was incurred and subject to the




For further details on the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule, readers are advised to consult Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023 on the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule.

Entertainment expenditure

It is common for costs to be incurred to entertain customers, shareholders, suppliers, or other business partners. However, this type of entertainment often contains a private element that would prevent the expenditure from being wholly and exclusively incurred for Business purposes.

As the private element can be difficult to estimate and apportion when looking at entertainment expenditure, a 50% deduction is allowed for Corporate Tax purposes in all cases of this type of expenditure.189

Entertainment expenditure includes expenditure in connection with meals, accommodation, transportation, admission fees, as well as facilities and equipment used in connection with such entertainment.190

Entertainment expenditure may include personal non-business expenditure, requiring the expenditure to be apportioned. Where the entertainment expenditure is not wholly and exclusively incurred for the purposes of the business, a Taxable Person will need to identify the appropriate proportion to be treated as entertainment expenditure and only 50% of that proportion will be deductible.




189 Article 32(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
190 Article 32(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


The deductibility limitation does not apply for expenditure incurred for staff entertainment. This means that, for example, the cost of internal entertainment such as staff parties can be fully deducted for Corporate Tax purposes unless the staff are family members and the event is private in nature (such as a wedding).


6.5.5. Non-deductible expenses

Aside from the circumstances discussed above, deductions are also specifically disallowed for:

* Expenditure not incurred for the purposes of the Taxable Person's Business;191
* Expenditure incurred in deriving Exempt Income;192
* Losses not connected with or arising out of the Taxable Person's Business;193
* A donation, grant or gift made to an organisation that is not a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity (see Section 5.7.4.2);194
* Any fines and penalties, other than amounts awarded as compensation for damages or breach of contract;195
* Bribes;196




191 Article 28(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 192 Article 28(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 193 Article 28(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 194 Article 33(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
195 Article 33(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
196 Article 33(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* Dividends, profit distributions or benefits of a similar nature paid to an owner of the Taxable Person;197
* Amounts withdrawn from the Business by a natural person who is a Taxable Person or a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership; 198
* Corporate Tax;199
* Recoverable input VAT;200
* Tax on income imposed outside the UAE (however, tax relief may be available as a Foreign Tax Credit);201 and
* Contributions made by employers to a private pension fund in respect of its employees which are not paid in the Tax Period or are in excess of 15% of the employee's total remuneration in the relevant Tax Period.202

Transactions between Related Parties and Connected Persons, and transfer pricing rules

Where two parties are closely linked, their relationship may influence any transactions between them. There are rules in place to ensure that these closely linked parties (known as Related Parties) do not manipulate the values of transactions between themselves in order to obtain a Corporate Tax advantage.

Related Parties must apply the "arm's length principle" when entering into a transaction or arrangement with each other. This means that the price of a transaction between Related Parties should be the same as if the transaction had taken place between two unrelated independent parties.203

Where the price of the transaction or arrangement between Related Parties is not considered to be at arm's length, the FTA will adjust the Taxable Person's Taxable Income to achieve the arm's length result that best reflects the circumstances of the transaction or arrangement.204

If the FTA makes an adjustment to a transaction or arrangement involving a Taxable Person to meet the arm's length standard, it shall also make a corresponding


197 Article 33(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 198 Article 33(5) of the Corporate Tax Law. 199 Article 33(6) of the Corporate Tax Law. 200 Article 33(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.
201 Articles 33(8) and 47 of the Corporate Tax Law. 202 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023. 203 Article 34(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
204 Article 34(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.


adjustment to the Taxable Income of the Related Party that is a party to the relevant transaction or arrangement.205

Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023 sets out the adjustments that must be made when calculating the Taxable Income from the transfer of an asset or liability between Related Parties.206

If a foreign tax authority makes an adjustment to a transaction or arrangement involving a Taxable Person to meet the arm's length standard, the Taxable Person can make an application to the FTA to make a corresponding adjustment to its UAE Taxable Income.207

A corresponding adjustment is an adjustment to the Corporate Tax liability of a UAE Taxable Person following a primary adjustment made by a foreign tax authority to the taxable base of a Related Party to the UAE Taxable Person, so that the allocation of profits by both jurisdictions is consistent. The purpose of such an adjustment is to prevent double taxation (or double non-taxation) which could arise as a result of the primary transfer pricing adjustment.

6.6.1. Related Parties

Broadly, a Related Party is an individual or juridical person that has a pre-existing relationship with another Person through ownership, Control or kinship (in the case of individuals). With respect to ownership and Control, it is internationally common to set the related party ownership threshold at 50% or more, on the basis that a simple majority is typically sufficient to exert influence and direction over another entity.

Two Persons are considered Related Parties for Corporate Tax purposes if they are:

* Two or more natural persons related to the fourth degree of kinship or affiliation, including by adoption or guardianship;208 This would include the following:
o The first-degree of kinship and affiliation includes a natural person's parents and children, as well as the parents and children of their spouse;
o The second-degree of kinship and affiliation additionally includes a natural person's grandparents, grandchildren, and siblings, as well as the grandparents, grandchildren, and siblings of their spouse;


205 Article 34(10) of the Corporate Tax Law.
206 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
207 Article 34(11) of the Corporate Tax Law.
208 Article 35(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law and Federal Law No. 5 of 1985 on the Issuance of Civil Transactions Law, and its amendments.


o The third-degree of kinship and affiliation additionally includes a natural person's great-grandparents, great grandchildren, uncles, aunts, nieces and nephews, as well as the great-grandparents, great grandchildren, uncles, aunts, nieces and nephews of their spouse;
o The fourth-degree of kinship and affiliation additionally includes a natural person's great-great-grandparents, great-great-grandchildren, grand uncle, grand aunt, grandniece, grandnephew and first cousins, as well as the great-great-grandparents, great-great-grandchildren, grand uncle, grand aunt, grandniece, grandnephew and first cousins of their spouse.

* A natural person and a juridical person where:
o The natural person, or one or more Related Parties of the individual, are shareholders in the juridical person, and the natural person, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly owns a 50% or greater ownership interest in the juridical person; or
o The natural person, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly Controls the juridical person.209
* Two or more juridical persons where:
o One juridical person, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly owns a 50% or greater ownership interest in the other juridical person; or
o One juridical person, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly Controls the other juridical person; or
o Any Person, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly owns a 50% or greater ownership interest in or Controls such two or more juridical persons;210 or
* A Person and its Permanent Establishment or Foreign Permanent Establishment;211
* Two or more Persons that are partners in the same Unincorporated Partnership;212 or
* A Person who is the trustee, founder, settlor or beneficiary of a trust or foundation, and the trust or foundation, including the trust's or foundation's Related Parties.213






209 Article 35(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law 210 Article 35(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law 211 Article 35(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law 212 Article 35(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law 213 Article 35(1)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law


6.6.2. Control

For the purposes of determining whether two or more Persons are Related Parties, Control means the ability of a Person, in their own right or by agreement, to influence another Person including through the ability to, among others:

* Exercise 50% or more of the voting rights of another Person;214
* Determine the composition of 50% or more of the board of directors of another Person;215
* Receive 50% or more of the profits of another Person;216 or
* Determine, or exercise significant influence over, the conduct of the Business and affairs of another Person.217

6.6.3. Connected Persons

Payments or benefits provided by a Taxable Person to its Connected Persons are deductible only to the extent that the payment or benefit corresponds with the Market Value of the service or benefit provided by the Connected Person, and where the payment or benefit is incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the Taxable Person's Business.218

For example, an owner of a business will be able to deduct their salary when determining the Business' Taxable Income but only insofar as this salary corresponds with the Market Value. In order to determine if the value of a service or benefit provided matches its Market Value, the arm's length principle should be applied.219

Connected Persons capture a broader group of Persons than Related Parties. A Connected Person of a Taxable Person is:

* A natural person who directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest in, or Controls, the Taxable Person (for example, the individual owner of a limited liability company);220




214 Article 35(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law 215 Article 35(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law 216 Article 35(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law 217 Article 35(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 218 Article 36(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
219 Article 36(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
220 Article 36(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* A director or officer of the Taxable Person (for example, a Managing Director of a limited liability company);221 or
* A Related Party of either of the above Persons (for example, a son of the owner of a limited liability company).222

This limitation does not apply to a company whose shares are traded on a Recognised Stock Exchange, or a Taxable Person that is subject to the regulatory oversight of a competent authority in the UAE.223

Example 21: Related Parties, Control and Connected Persons

Mr B is a first cousin of Ms C. Mr B owns 75% of B LLC.
Ms C owns 20% of C LLC. She owns preferential shares which entitle her to 60% of the voting rights in C LLC.

Ms C is also a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership, JKL Partners. The other partner is a UAE corporation, D Ltd.

Mr B and Ms C are Related Parties - they are related to the fourth degree of kinship.

Mr B and B LLC are Related Parties - Mr B is an individual who owns more than 50% of the juridical person B LLC.

Mr B and C LLC are Connected Persons - Mr B is an individual who is related to Ms C and Ms C owns more than 50% of the voting rights in C LLC.

Ms C and C LLC are Related Parties - Ms C is an individual who Controls a juridical person, C LLC, as she holds more than 50% of the voting rights in C LLC.

Ms C and D Ltd are Related Parties - they are partners in the same Unincorporated Partnership.

B LLC and D Ltd are unrelated juridical persons.

Ms C and B LLC are Connected Persons - Ms C is Mr B's first cousin and Mr B owns


221 Article 36(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 222 Article 36(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 223 Article 36(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.




6.6.4. Transfer pricing

Transfer pricing rules aim to ensure that the price of a transaction is not influenced by the relationship between the parties involved. In order to achieve this and to avoid artificially profit shifting, the internationally recognised arm's length principle is used for transactions between Related Parties and Connected Persons. The transfer pricing rules apply to both cross-border and domestic transactions carried out by juridical persons and individuals.

General transfer pricing disclosure requirements

Taxable Persons may be subject to certain transfer pricing disclosure requirements in case of entering into transactions or arrangements with Related Parties, which may allow the FTA to conduct a comprehensive and reasonable transfer pricing risk assessment, and confirm whether these transactions with Related Parties and Connected Persons have been conducted in accordance with the arm's length principle.224

The FTA can require a Taxable Person to disclose information regarding their transactions and arrangements with their Related Parties and Connected Persons, together with their Tax Return.225

The purpose of maintaining transfer pricing related information is to describe how the Taxable Person has determined the transfer prices of transactions with Related Parties and Connected Persons, and why those transfer prices are sufficiently comparable to prices applied by independent parties in a similar situation.

A Taxable Person must comply with a request issued by the FTA to provide information which supports the arm's length nature of its transactions or arrangements with its Related Parties and Connected Persons. This information must be submitted within 30 days following the request, or by any such other later date as directed by the FTA.226


Master file and local file

In addition to the submission of a general transfer pricing disclosure form, Taxable Persons need to maintain a 'master file' and a 'local file' if their Revenue in the relevant Tax Period is AED 200,000,000 or more, or they are part of a Multinational Enterprise Group (MNE) with total consolidated group revenue over or equal to AED 3,150,000,000 in the preceding Financial Year.227

Generally, a master file is a 'blueprint' of a group's activity, containing information on its economic activities in different jurisdictions and its overall transfer pricing policy.

On the other hand, a local file contains more detail than a master file, specifically in relation to Related Party and Connected Persons transactions undertaken by group members. The purpose is to provide functional and economic analysis to support the arm's length basis of its transactions.

Tax Losses

Where a Taxable Person's deductible expenditure exceeds its income that is subject to Corporate Tax, it will have negative Taxable Income. This is known as a Tax Loss. Many businesses make losses at some point in their lifecycle. For example, a new business may initially have losses while it is investing in growing its Business, or a more mature Business may make a loss over a period because of a temporary, adverse trading environment.

Businesses who have a Tax Loss will be able to use the Tax Loss to reduce Taxable Income in future Tax Periods (provided the necessary conditions are met).228 This is to ensure that the amount of Corporate Tax paid by Businesses would (subject to certain conditions) be the same irrespective of when such profits or losses arise. In certain circumstances, Tax Losses can also be used to offset against the Taxable Income of another Business.

A Taxable Person cannot claim Tax Loss relief for:229

* Losses incurred before the date of commencement of Corporate Tax;
* Losses incurred before a Person becomes a Taxable Person; or
* Losses incurred from an asset or activity that generates income which is exempt from Corporate Tax.


A Taxable Person cannot claim Tax Losses for the Tax Period in which they have elected to benefit from small business relief.

6.7.1. Tax Loss relief

A Taxable Person can carry forward Tax Losses and offset them against Taxable Income in subsequent Tax Periods, subject to meeting certain conditions.230 These Tax Losses carried forward can be used to reduce the Taxable Person's income in the Tax Period by a maximum of 75% of that Taxable Income. 231 This ensures that Corporate Tax is applied to the economic unit that generates Taxable Income as a whole.

Taxable Persons must use available Tax Losses in a Tax Period before any remaining Tax Loss can be carried forward to the next period, or transferred to another Taxable Person subject to meeting the required conditions. For example, if a Taxable Person has carried forward Tax Losses of less than 75% of their Taxable Income, they must use all of the Tax Losses in the current period and cannot choose to carry these Tax Losses forward.232 Tax Losses cannot be carried back to previous Tax Periods.



230 Article 39 of the Corporate Tax Law.
231 Article 37(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


C LLC will have Tax Losses of AED 2,250,000 (AED 6,000,000 - AED 3,750,000) to
carry forward.

In the Tax Period ending on 31 December 2028, C LLC has Taxable Income of AED 5,000,000. The maximum Tax Loss that can be used to offset against its Taxable Income is AED 5,000,000 x 75% = AED 3,750,000. This means that the full amount of Tax Losses of AED 2,250,000 brought forward are available to be offset against the Taxable Income of AED 5,000,000 in this Tax Period.

C LLC will have a final Taxable Income of AED 2,750,000 (AED 5,000,000 - AED 2,250,000). This means that C LLC must pay Corporate Tax of AED 213,750 (AED 375,000 x 0% + AED 2,375,000 x 9%). C LLC will have no Tax Losses to carry forward.

(Amounts in AED)
31/12/2026
31/12/2027
31/12/2028
Taxable Income (pre-Tax Loss relief)

(6,000,000)

5,000,000

5,000,000
Tax Loss utilised
0
3,750,000
2,250,000
Final Taxable Income
0
1,250,000
2,750,000
Tax Loss carried forward
6,000,000
2,250,000
0
Corporate Tax Payable
0
78,750
213,750

6.7.2. Tax Losses and change of ownership

Specific rules apply for juridical persons that have Tax Losses carried forward and have had a change of ownership in the Tax Period.

A Tax Loss can be carried forward by a Taxable Person provided the owners of the Taxable Person continuously hold at least 50% ownership from the start of the period in which the Loss is incurred to the end of the Tax Period in which the Tax Loss is used to offset against Taxable Income.

If there is a change in ownership of more than 50%, Tax Losses can still be carried forward provided the same or similar Business is carried on following the change in ownership.233




These rules do not apply where the Taxable Person's shares are listed on a Recognised Stock Exchange.234

6.7.3. Transfer of Tax Losses

Tax Losses may be transferred between Taxable Persons that are Resident juridical persons, where all of the following conditions are met:235
* one entity has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least a 75% in the other, or a third entity has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% of the shares in both;
* they share the same Financial Year;
* they prepare their Financial Statements using the same accounting standards;
* none of the Persons are Exempt Persons or Qualifying Free Zone Persons.

Taxable Persons must meet the qualifying common ownership conditions from the start of the Tax Period in which the Tax Loss is incurred to the end of the Tax Period in which the transferred Tax Loss is used before they are able to transfer Tax Losses.236

The Taxable Person who transfers the Tax Losses will have the amount of the Tax Losses available to them, reduced by the amount they have transferred.237

Transferred Tax Losses can reduce the recipient's Taxable Income by a maximum of 75% of their Taxable Income in that Tax Period. 238 There is no corresponding minimum amount of Tax Loss which must be transferred, however the maximum that can be transferred to the recipient is 75% of their Taxable Income in that Tax Period.

A single Taxable Person may transfer their Tax Losses to more than one Taxable Person provided that in each case the relationship of the recipient Taxable Person with the Taxable Person transferring their Tax Losses meets the relevant conditions. Similarly, a recipient company can claim Tax Losses from more than one transferring company provided that the total Tax Loss offset does not exceed 75% of the recipient's Taxable Income and that all other conditions for the transfer of Tax Losses are met.





234 Article 39(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 235 Article 38(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 236 Article 38(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 237 Article 38(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 23: Transfer of Tax Losses

C LLC owns 75% of the shares of F LLC and both meet all the requirements to qualify for the transfer of loss relief.

C LLC makes a loss of AED 2,000,000 and F LLC makes a profit of AED 2,000,000 in the same Tax Period. C LLC chooses to transfer AED 1,500,000 of Tax Losses to F LLC. This is the maximum amount that F LLC can offset against its Taxable Income. This gives F LLC a final Taxable Income of AED 500,000. The remaining AED 500,000 of unutilised losses is carried forward by C LLC to the subsequent Tax Period.

(Amounts in AED)
C LLC
F LLC
Taxable Income / (Loss)
(2,000,000)
2,000,000
Tax Loss transferred
1,500,000
0
Tax Losses received
0
(1,500,000)
Final Taxable Income / (Loss)
(500,000)
500,000
Tax Loss carried forward
(500,000)
0

Determination of Taxable Income

Calculating Taxable Income is a two-step process:

* The Taxable Person must first determine their Accounting Income. This will be based on Financial Statements prepared according to accounting standards recognised in the UAE (IFRS or IFRS for SMEs). Qualifying Free Zone Persons and any other Taxable Persons with revenue over AED 50 million must prepare and maintain audited Financial Statements.
* The second step is to apply the relevant adjustments to the Accounting Income to arrive at the Taxable Income amount.239

Taxable Persons have to submit a Tax Return to the FTA within 9 months after the end of each Tax Period.240




239 Article 20(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
240 Article 53(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


The Tax Return is self-assessed, and Taxable Persons must provide their Accounting Income and details of any relevant adjustments, such as exemptions and reliefs claimed.

Example 24: Calculation of Taxable Income

C LLC is a UAE resident company. At the end of its most recent Tax Period, its Financial Statements show an Accounting Income of AED 10,000,000. It has previously made an election to exempt its income from its Foreign Permanent Establishment in Country B. C LLC also has carried forward Tax Losses of AED 2,000,000.

Its Accounting Income for the most recent Tax Period includes the following items:
* Dividends received from UAE Resident companies: AED 1,000,000;
* Income from its Foreign Permanent Establishment in Country B: AED 1,500,000;
* Net Interest Expenditure: AED 7,000,000; and
* Entertainment expenditure: AED 500,000.

In order to determine its Taxable Income, C LLC must make the following adjustments to the Accounting Income in respect of these items:
* Domestic dividends are Exempt Income for Corporate Tax purposes. As a result, the dividend income of AED 1,000,000 should be excluded from C LLC's Accounting Income;
* C LLC has made an election to exempt its income from its Foreign Permanent Establishment. As a result, the income from its Permanent Establishment in Country B of AED 1,500,000 should also be excluded from C LLC's Accounting Income (assuming the relevant conditions have been met);
* Net Interest Expenditure is deductible in full as it is less than the de minimis Net Interest Expenditure of AED 12,000,000; and
* Only 50% of entertainment expenditure is an allowable expense for Corporate Tax purposes. As a result, 50% of the expenditure (AED 500,000 x 50% = AED 250,000) must be added back to C LLC's Accounting Income.

C LLC's Taxable Income is therefore:
Accounting Income	10,000,000

Less: Domestic dividends	(1,000,000)


Less: Foreign Permanent Establishment income

(1,500,000)


Add: Interest expenditure	0

















Taxable Income
7,750,000
Less: Tax Losses
(2,000,000)
Final Taxable Income
5,750,000


Transitional rules

In order to compute the Corporate Tax liabilities for a Taxable Person's first Tax Period, it is necessary for Taxable Persons to have both an opening and a closing balance sheet. The opening balance sheet for the first Tax Period should be the closing balance sheet on the last day of the Person's Financial Year that ends immediately before its first Tax Period commences.241

If no accounts were prepared for the previous Financial Year, a closing balance sheet will have to be prepared under an appropriate accounting standard, as applicable and regardless of whether the Cash Basis of Accounting or Accrual Basis of Accounting is applied.

Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023 includes certain adjustments a Taxable Person may make (by way of an election) in relation to intangible assets, Immovable Property, and Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities owned by the Taxable Person before it becomes subject to Corporate Tax. 242 These elections must be made on the submission of the Taxable Person's first Tax Return, and are deemed irrevocable except under exceptional circumstances that require FTA approval.243

In relation to Immovable Property, if Immovable Property owned by the Taxable Person prior to the Taxable Person's first Tax Period is recorded on a historical cost

241 Article 61(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
242 Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
243 Articles 2(5), 3(4) and 4(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


basis in the Financial Statements, the Taxable Person can elect in its first Tax Period to adjust its Taxable Income in calculating the gain on the disposal of any Immovable Property in order that only gains accruing while within the scope of Corporate Tax will be taxed. The Taxable Person can select whether they use a 'time apportionment method' or a 'valuation method' when determining the amount of the gain that shall be excluded.244

The 'valuation method' allows the Taxable Person to exclude the amount of the gain that would have arisen at the start of their first Tax Period had the Immovable Property been disposed of at Market Value and the cost of the Immovable Property was the higher of the original cost and the net book value.245 This would require the Taxable Person to determine the Market Value of the Immovable Property at the start of their first Tax Period on the basis as set out in Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.

Alternatively, the Taxable Person could choose to use the 'time apportionment method' to exclude the amount of the gain that would have arisen at the start of their first Tax Period.246 This allows the Taxable Person to exclude a proportion of the total gain in accordance with the proportion of time the Immovable Property was owned prior to the start of the Taxable Person's first Tax Period and the time of disposal of the Immovable Property.

For intangible assets, any apportionment must be on the basis of time apportionment; 247 while for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, any apportionment must be on the basis of valuations at the start of the period where the assets came within the scope of Corporate Tax.248

For further details on these transitional rules, readers are advised to consult Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023 on the Adjustments Under the Transitional Rules.



244 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
245 Article 2(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
246 Articles 2(2)(b) and 2(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
247 Articles 3(2) and 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
248 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.




Example 26: Time Apportionment Method

G LLC purchases and develops properties in the UAE. G LLC purchased a Dubai property on 1 June 2022, and recognises this on the historical cost basis of AED 2,000,000.

When filing its first Tax Return for the Tax Period ended 31 May 2024, G LLC made an election to adjust its Taxable Income for the purposes of calculating gains or losses on the Dubai property using the time apportionment method.

On 1 June 2024, G LLC sold its Dubai property for AED 3,500,000. G LLC has elected to use the time apportionment method for the purposes of determining how much of the gain shall be excluded. Given that the Immovable Property was owned for two years in total and G LLC owned the property for a year before their first Tax Period, this means that half of the gain can be excluded for the purposes of determining G LLC's Taxable Income.

As a result, G LLC will only need to recognise, for Corporate Tax purposes, a gain of AED 750,000, as this is the portion of the full gain of AED 1,500,000 that can be attributed to the time between 1 June 2023 and 1 June 2024.


7. Reliefs

Chapter summary

This chapter provides an overview of the reliefs available under the Corporate Tax Law. Specifically, it sets out small business relief, relief for transfer of assets and liabilities between companies in a Qualifying Group and business restructuring relief.

Small business relief

Small business relief is provided to eligible UAE businesses, and reduces their Corporate Tax burden and compliance costs in the Corporate Tax regime, primarily by alleviating the burden of having to calculate and pay Corporate Tax in each relevant Tax Period where the conditions are satisfied.

Any eligible Taxable Person with Revenue equal to or below AED 3,000,000 in a relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods (ending on or before 31 December 2026), can elect to be treated as having no Taxable Income in that period and will not be obliged to calculate its Taxable Income or complete a full Tax Return.249 Where a Taxable Person has elected to benefit from small business relief, they will still be able to carry forward any unutilised Tax Losses 250 and disallowed Net Interest Expenditure251 arising from prior Tax Periods to be used in future Tax Periods in which small business relief no longer applies.

To be eligible for small business relief, the Taxable Person in question must not be a Constituent Company of a Multinational Enterprise that is required to prepare a Country-by-Country Report under the UAE's Country-by-Country Reporting legislation.252 In addition, a Qualifying Free Zone Person cannot claim small business relief.253

For the Tax Period that a Resident Person elects to benefit from small business relief, the Resident Person will not be required to maintain transfer pricing documentation, if applicable. However, they will still be required to apply the arm's length principle.254





249 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
250 Article 37 of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023. 251 Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023. 252 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 and Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020.
253 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
254 Article 21(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.


For further details on small business relief, readers are advised to consult Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief, and the Corporate Tax Guide on Small Business Relief.


Example 28: Carried forward unutilised Tax Losses when electing for small business relief

C LLC is a UAE Resident company. In the Tax Period ending 31 December 2025, C LLC's Revenue was AED 1,700,000. At the beginning of the Tax Period, C LLC had unutilised Tax Losses of AED 400,000. In the prior year, C LLC's Revenue did not exceed the AED 3,000,000 relief threshold.

C LLC elects for small business relief for the Tax Period ending 31 December 2025. C LLC's carried forward Tax Losses cannot be used in this Tax Period, but can be carried forward and used in future Tax Periods in which the small business relief is not elected provided the relevant conditions are met.

In the Tax Period ending 31 December 2026, C LLC sold a factory to B LLC for AED 5 million, resulting in its Revenue exceeding the AED 3 million (per Tax Period) small business relief eligibility threshold. In this case, C LLC will not be eligible for small business relief for the Tax Period Ending 31 December 2026.

C LLC will need to determine its Taxable Income for the 31 December 2026 Tax Period. To the extent C LLC has a positive Taxable Income, it is able to utilise its Tax Losses




Transfers within a Qualifying Group

It is a common practice for closely related Businesses to transfer assets and liabilities between each other for operational reasons. Ordinarily, there would be a taxable gain or loss where an asset or liability is transferred for an amount different to its net book value. However, Corporate Tax relief is available where an asset or liability is transferred between members of a Qualifying Group which allows the transfer to take place without giving rise to a Corporate Tax liability.255

Taxable Persons will be treated as being members of the same Qualifying Group if they meet all of the following conditions:256

* The Taxable Persons are juridical persons that are Resident Persons, or Non- Resident Persons that have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE;257
* Either Taxable Person has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% in the other Taxable Person, or a third Person has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% in each of the Taxable Persons;258
* None of the Persons are an Exempt Person;259
* None of the Persons are a Qualifying Free Zone Person;260
* The Financial Year of each of the Taxable Person ends on the same date;261 and
* Both Taxable Persons prepare their Financial Statements using the same accounting standards.262

Where an election is made to apply the transfer within a Qualifying Group provisions, assets or liabilities held on capital account that have been transferred between



255 Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 256 Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 257 Article 26(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 258 Article 26(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 259 Article 26(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 260 Article 26(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 261 Article 26(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 262 Article 26(2)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law.


members of a Qualifying Group are treated as being transferred at the net book value of the asset or liability so that no gain or loss arises.263

The amount paid or received for the transfer will be treated as being equal to the value at which the transferor (the Taxable Person that transferred the asset or liability) records the transferred asset or liability.264

When calculating their Taxable Income, and unless and until the asset is subsequently transferred or sold to a third party, the transferee will exclude any depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of the transferred asset or liability to the extent that it relates to the gain or loss that arose to the transferor that has not been subject to Corporate Tax due to the application of the relief for transfers within a Qualifying Group.265

Upon realisation of the asset or liability, the transferee will need to include any amount that has not been recognised for Corporate Tax purposes, other than any such amount that arose prior to the most recent acquisition where the relief did not apply.266

An election must be made by the transferor to apply this treatment and both the transferor and transferee must maintain a record of the agreement to transfer the asset or liability at net book value.267

The election is made alongside the Tax Return for the Tax Period in which the transfer occurs.268 This election is irrevocable and will apply to all future transfers of assets and liabilities held on capital account by the transferor within the Qualifying Group in all future Tax Periods.269

The relief will be clawed back if, within two years of the transfer, there is a subsequent transfer of the asset or liability outside of the Qualifying Group, or either the transferor or transferee ceases to be a member of the same Qualifying Group.270 In either of these scenarios, the transferor shall treat the transfer as having taken place at Market Value at the date of the original transfer, and shall account for any gain or loss that arises as a result in the Tax Return for the Tax Period in which the subsequent transfer

263 Article 3(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
264 Article 26(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
265 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
266 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
267 Articles 3(1) and 6 of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
268 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
269 Article 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
270 Article 26(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.


occurred.271 If the transferor no longer exists (for example, they have ceased to carry out a Business), the transferee would be responsible for meeting any Corporate Tax obligation on the deferred gain or loss.272

Example 29: Relief for transfers within a Qualifying Group

C LLC and D LLC are both manufacturing businesses wholly owned by X LLC. C LLC and D LLC also meet all other conditions to be considered as members of a Qualifying Group.

During the Tax Period, D LLC won a large contract to supply goods to a new customer. In order to manufacture these goods, it needs specialist machinery. C LLC had this kind of machinery and, due to a recent change in its clients' needs, no longer requires the machinery. C LLC transferred the machinery to D LLC. C LLC did not request payment and D LLC did not pay for the machinery. At the time of the transfer, the net book value of the machinery was AED 800,000 and its Market Value was AED 1,200,000. D LLC uses the fair value method of accounting and as a result, recognised the asset at a net book value of AED 1,200,000 for accounting purposes.

For Corporate Tax purposes, the machinery can be treated as having been transferred at the asset's net book value, AED 800,000. This means that when calculating their Taxable Income, C LLC will be treated as having received AED 800,000 and D LLC will be treated as having paid AED 800,000 for the machinery. As a result, no gain or loss will arise for C LLC for Corporate Tax purposes.

(Amounts in AED)
C LLC
D LLC
Amount	deemed	to	have	been received for Corporate Tax purposes

800,000

n/a
Less: Net book value of the machine brought forward

(800,000)

n/a
Gain / loss arising for Corporate Tax purposes on the transfer of the machine

0

n/a






271 Article 26(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
272 Article 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.




For further details on Transfers within a Qualifying Group, readers are advised to consult Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023 on Transfers Within a Qualifying Group.

Business restructuring relief

In certain circumstances, where an entire Business or an independent part of a Business is transferred in exchange for shares or other ownership interests, business restructuring relief may apply to eliminate the Corporate Tax impact of these transactions. Under this relief, no gains or losses need to be taken into account when calculating the Taxable Income for either party.273

In order for this relief to apply, all of the following conditions need to be met:

* The transfer is undertaken in accordance with, and meets all the conditions imposed by, the applicable legislation of the UAE;274
* The Taxable Persons are Resident Persons, or Non-Resident Persons that have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE;275

273 Article 27(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 274 Article 27(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 275 Article 27(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* None of the Persons are an Exempt Person;276
* None of the Persons are a Qualifying Free Zone Person;277
* The Financial Year of each of the Taxable Persons ends on the same date;278
* The Taxable Persons prepare their Financial Statements using the same accounting standards;279 and
* The transfer is undertaken for valid commercial reasons which reflect economic reality.280

An individual can use this relief in order to transfer their Business to an incorporated entity as long as the relevant conditions are satisfied.

Where business restructuring relief applies, the assets and liabilities transferred will be treated as being transferred at their net book value at the time of transfer so that neither a gain nor a loss arises.281

This is an optional relief, and the Person that transferred the Business ('the transferor') can choose whether to elect for the relief to apply on a case-by-case basis.282 Both the transferor and transferee need to maintain a record of the agreement to transfer the Business at net book value.283

The relief is available where a Business is transferred in exchange for ownership interests and other forms of consideration (such as cash). Where other forms of considerations are part of the overall consideration for the Business transfer, the Market Value of any other form of consideration cannot exceed the net book value of the assets and liabilities transferred, or 10% of the nominal value of the ownership interests issued.284

When calculating their Taxable Income, the transferee will exclude any depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of the transferred assets and liabilities to the extent that the change in value relates to the gain or loss that arose to the transferor




276 Article 27(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 277 Article 27(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 278 Article 27(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 279 Article 27(2)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law. 280 Article 27(2)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law. 281 Article 27(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
282 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
283 Articles 4(1) and 9 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
284 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


that has not been subject to Corporate Tax due to the application of business restructuring relief.285

Upon realisation, the transferee will need to include any gain or loss that has not previously been recognised for Corporate Tax purposes in respect of the assets and liabilities since the most recent acquisition to which business restructuring relief did not apply.286

Tax Losses transferred as part of a business restructuring may only become carried forward Tax Losses available for the transferee if the transferee continues to conduct a similar Business or Business Activity following the transfer.287 This will usually mean that:

* the transferee uses some or all of the same assets that were used by the transferor prior to the transfer;
* the transferee has not made significant changes to the core identity or operations of the Business since the transfer; and
* any changes that have been made have resulted from the development or use of assets, services, processes, products or methods that existed before the transfer.
* This relief will not apply if, within two years of the initial transfer:
o The shares or other ownership interests in either the transferor or the transferee are sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of, in whole or part, to a Person that is not a member of the Qualifying Group (as defined in Section 7.3) to which the transferor or the transferee belong;288 or
o There is a subsequent transfer or disposal of the Business or independent part of the Business which was transferred.289

In either of these scenarios, the transferor shall treat the transfer as having taken place at Market Value at the date of the transfer, and shall account for any gain or loss that arises as a result in the Tax Return for the Tax Period in which the subsequent transfer occurred.290 If the transferor is no longer a Taxable Person (for example, they have ceased to exist or cease to have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE), or if they are an individual, the transferee would be responsible for meeting any Corporate Tax obligation on the deferred gain or loss.291


285 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
286 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
287 Article 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
288 Article 27(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 289 Article 27(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 290 Article 27(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.
291 Article 8 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


Example 31: Business restructuring relief

F LLC is a UAE resident company that sells agricultural machinery. Z LLC is a UAE resident company that operates an agricultural machinery repair business.

During the Tax Period, Z LLC bought F LLC's business in return for 20% of the shares in Z LLC. The net book value of F LLC's business at the time of transfer was AED 2,300,000. The Market Value of the shares received by F LLC was AED 2,700,000, which equals the Market Value of the business. Z LLC measures assets at fair value and, therefore, recognised the assets and liabilities of the business at a net book value of AED 2,700,000 for accounting purposes.

For Corporate Tax purposes, the business will be treated as having been transferred to Z LLC at its net book value, AED 2,300,000. This means that when calculating their Taxable Income, F LLC will be treated as having received AED 2,300,000 and Z LLC will be treated as having paid AED 2,300,000 for the business. As a result, no gain or loss accrues to F LLC or Z LLC.
(Amounts in AED)
F LLC
Z LLC
Amount deemed to have been received for Corporate Tax purposes

2,300,000

n/a
Less:	Net	book	value	of	the Business brought forward

2,300,000

n/a
Gain / loss arising for Corporate Tax purposes on the transfer of the Business

0

n/a






For further details on business restructuring relief, readers are advised to consult Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023 on Business Restructuring Relief.292














































292 Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


8. Special regimes

Chapter summary

This chapter sets out the  treatment of partnerships and Tax Groups under the Corporate Tax Law. It explains what is meant by a partnership and how it is taxed. It also introduces the requirements associated with forming a Tax Group and explains how to calculate the Taxable Income of a Tax Group.

Taxation of partnership and their partners

8.2.1. Unincorporated Partnerships

Individuals, companies and other legal entities may join with others to form a partnership, usually established under a contract and jointly conduct Business or hold investments. Partnerships can take a range of different forms, and can be incorporated, such as Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs), or Unincorporated Partnerships, such as general partnerships and joint ventures (JVs).

Incorporated partnerships (see Section 8.2.2) have a separate legal personality from their partners and are treated as a juridical person that is subject to Corporate Tax at the partnership level.

However, where a partnership does not have a separate legal personality, each partner is treated as:

* conducting the Business of the partnership;293
* having a status, intention, and purpose of the partnership;294
* holding assets that the partnership holds;295 and
* being party to any arrangement to which the partnership is a party.296

In this case, the Unincorporated Partnership is not considered a Taxable Person in its own right, as it is not considered a juridical person.297 This means that the partnership itself is not subject to Corporate Tax, and each partner is subject to Corporate Tax on their income from the partnership.298 The activities of the partnership are treated as

293 Article 16(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 294 Article 16(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 295 Article 16(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 296 Article 16(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
297 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023.
298 Article 16(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


being carried out by the partners, and each partner is taxed in proportion to their distributive share in the partnership.

Taxable Income of partners in an Unincorporated Partnership

Partners in an Unincorporated Partnership are taxed in accordance with the wider Corporate Tax regime. In particular, individuals that are partners in an Unincorporated Partnership are taxed on the same basis as if they were conducting Business on their own. Therefore, they are only subject to Corporate Tax on income arising from categories of Business and Business Activities that are subject to Corporate Tax for individuals (see Section5.3.3).

However, the partners in an Unincorporated Partnership may make an application to the FTA for the Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a Taxable Person (i.e. to have the Corporate Tax liability be determined and assessed at the level of the partnership).299

Once the application is approved, and to the extent there are any individuals who are partners in that Unincorporated Partnership, Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 will no longer be applicable in relation to the activities of those individual partners in the Unincorporated Partnership, as the Unincorporated Partnership, and not the partners, is treated as conducting the Business (unless the partners conduct other business or business activities separate from the Unincorporated Partnership). This means that all partnership income will be Taxable Income subject to Corporate Tax for the Unincorporated Partnership. The application will be deemed irrevocable except under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to approval by the FTA.300

Where the application for an Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a standalone Taxable Person has been approved by the FTA, any Taxable Income for the partnership will be excluded from the Taxable Income of the partner.301 The partners will also exclude any gains or losses on the transfer, sale or disposal of all or part of their interest in the Unincorporated Partnership if this interest meets the conditions of the participation exemption (see Section 6.4.2).302






299 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
300 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023.
301 Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
302 Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


The Unincorporated Partnership needs to notify the FTA in case of any partner joining or leaving the Unincorporated Partnership within 20 business days.303

For further details on Unincorporated Partnerships, readers are advised to consult the relevant Ministerial Decisions, including Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023 on Unincorporated Partnership, Foreign Partnership and Family Foundation304

       Allocation	of	partnership	assets,	liabilities,	income	and expenditure

Where an Unincorporated Partnership has not made an application to be treated as a standalone Taxable Person:

* A partner's distributive share is the share of partnership profits they are entitled to under the partnership agreement. Where the distributive share cannot be determined (e.g. if there is no partnership agreement), the FTA can prescribe the manner in which profits shall be allocated amongst the partners.305
* Any partnership assets, liabilities, income or expenditure will be allocated to each partner in proportion to their distributive share in the partnership.306

Where an Unincorporated Partnership has not made the election to be treated as a Taxable Person, a partner in the Unincorporated Partnership should follow the ordinary steps outlined in Chapter 6 when calculating their Taxable Income. A partner's Taxable Income is based on their share of the partnership's income, expenses, assets and liabilities. They should also take into account:

* expenditure incurred directly by the partner in conducting the Business of the partnership;307 and
* Interest expenditure incurred by the partner in relation to contributions made to the capital account (e.g., cash or assets) of the partnership.308

This expenditure needs to meet the normal rules for deductibility of business expenses. For example, a partner will not be allowed to deduct expenditure relating to personal travel or home rent given that neither of this expenditure is incurred for the purposes of the business.

303 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023.
304 Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023 and Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
305 Article 16(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 306 Article 16(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 307 Article 16(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 308 Article 16(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Any Interest paid to a partner by the partnership on their capital account will be treated as an allocation of income to the partner.309 This forms part of the partner's Taxable Income and is, therefore, not a deductible expense for the partner in calculating their Taxable Income.

Where a partner receives a salary, draw down or other income derived from their profit share, these amounts will be treated as allocations of income to the partner and will, therefore, usually be taxable on the partner as a distributive share of any partnership profits.


309 Article 16(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.




Application to be treated as a Taxable Person

As noted above, partners in an Unincorporated Partnership can make an application to be taxed at the partnership level, with the partnership itself becoming a Taxable Person.310 This application will apply from the commencement of the Tax Period in which the application is made or from the commencement of a future Tax Period, or any other date determined by the FTA.311

The effect of this treatment is to ensure that Taxable Income is calculated at the partnership level rather than at the individual partner level. Whilst all partners remain jointly and severally liable for the Corporate Tax Payable for all Tax Periods in which they were partners, a single partner will need to be appointed as the partner responsible for complying with Corporate Tax related obligations on behalf of the partnership.312

8.2.2. Incorporated partnerships

Where a partnership is incorporated in the UAE and has a separate legal personality, as is the case for Limited Liability Partnerships and Limited Partnership Companies, they will be treated as a juridical person for Corporate Tax purposes. Their treatment will, therefore, be the same as other juridical persons such as Limited Liability Companies and Public Joint Stock Companies.

8.2.3. Tax treatment of a foreign partnership

A Foreign Partnership is a relationship established by contract between two or more Persons, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with laws of a foreign jurisdiction. Foreign partnerships will be treated as Unincorporated Partnerships for the purposes of UAE Corporate Tax if:

* the foreign partnership is not subject to tax in the foreign country or territory;313


310 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law. 311 Article 16(10) of the Corporate Tax Law. 312 Article 16(9)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 313 Article 16(7)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* each partner in the foreign partnership is individually subject to tax in respect of their distributive share;314

This means that in order for the Foreign Partnership to be treated as an Unincorporated Partnership for UAE Corporate Tax purposes, such partnership must be treated as not taxable in its own right in the foreign country or territory where it was formed, and the partners should be taxed on their distributive share of income received by or accrued to the partnership, subject to the tax residence of the partners and the respective tax treatment of income earned by the partners in the country of formation. Additionally, the foreign partnership must submit an annual declaration to the FTA to confirm that these conditions are met.315 Moreover, the foreign country or territory and the UAE must have adequate arrangements in place for the purpose of sharing tax information regarding the partners in the foreign partnership.316

Where these conditions are met, the foreign partnership will be treated as an Unincorporated Partnership and each of the partners treated as individual Taxable Persons, unless an application is made to the FTA to be taxed at the partnership level, with the foreign partnership itself becoming a Taxable Person.

Tax Group regime

Companies under common ownership can form a Tax Group, subject to meeting the relevant conditions.317 This allows the Tax Group to be treated as a single Taxable Person, reducing the compliance burden on individual companies by consolidating accounts and eliminating intra-group transactions, and increasing flexibility in the utilisation of Tax Losses.318

Businesses and business activities conducted by a Government Entity can also apply for this treatment.319

For further details on Tax Groups, readers are advised to consult the relevant Ministerial Decisions, including Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023 on Tax Groups.320




314 Article 16(7)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
315 Article 4(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023. 316 Article 4(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023. 317 Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
318 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
319 Articles 2 and 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 68 of 2023.
320 Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023 and Ministerial Decision No. 68 of 2023.


8.3.1. Requirements to form a Tax Group

In order to form a Tax Group, a Parent Company must make an application to the FTA. The application must be made by the Parent Company and each of the Subsidiaries seeking to become members of the Tax Group. Both the Parent Company and its Subsidiaries must be resident juridical persons under the Corporate Tax Law and under a relevant Double Taxation Agreement (if applicable), have the same Financial Year, and prepare their Financial Statements using the same accounting standards.321 No member of the Tax Group can be an Exempt Person322 or Qualifying Free Zone Person.323

In addition, there are ownership requirements such that the Parent Company must directly or indirectly:

* own at least 95% of the share capital of the Subsidiary;324
* hold at least 95% of the voting rights in the Subsidiary;325 and
* be entitled to at least 95% of the Subsidiary's profits and net assets.326

A Parent Company or Subsidiary must not be considered resident for tax purposes in another jurisdiction under a relevant Double Taxation Agreement.327 This may require the Parent Company or Subsidiary to maintain documentation to confirm that it is not resident for tax purposes in another jurisdiction, such as a confirmation from the relevant tax authority of the other jurisdiction.328

8.3.2. Formation and cessation of a Tax Group

A Tax Group will be formed from the beginning of the Tax Period specified in the application submitted to the FTA. The FTA may also determine the formation date as being the beginning of any other Tax Period.329

A Tax Group will cease to exist if the FTA approves the dissolution of the Tax Group, or if the Parent Company no longer meets the necessary conditions throughout the

321 Articles 40(1)(a), 40(1)(g) and 40(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law.
322 Article 40(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 323 Article 40(1)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law. 324 Article 40(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 325 Article 40(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 326 Article 40(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
327 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
328 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
329 Article 41(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


relevant Tax Period.330 The FTA may also dissolve or change the Parent Company of a Tax Group at the FTA's discretion based on information available to the FTA. If this happens, the FTA will notify the Parent Company.331

8.3.3. Joining or leaving a Tax Group

A Subsidiary is able to join an existing Tax Group by applying to the FTA with the Parent Company.332 Newly established Parent Companies or Subsidiaries can join an existing Tax Group from the date of their incorporation, and do not have to wait until the beginning of the following Tax Period.333

A Subsidiary must leave an existing Tax Group if:

* an application to leave the Tax Group by the Parent Company and that Subsidiary is approved by the FTA; or
* if the Subsidiary no longer meets the relevant conditions to remain in the Tax Group.334

A Parent Company of a Tax Group can also make an application to the FTA to be replaced by another Parent Company without discontinuing the Tax Group if the new Parent Company meets all of the conditions satisfied by the former Parent Company.335 An application can also be made if the former Parent Company ceases to exist and the new Parent Company or a Subsidiary is its universal legal successor.

A company will be treated as having left the Tax Group from the beginning of the Tax Period in which it no longer meets the conditions.

8.3.4. Compliance with Corporate Tax requirements

The Parent Company represents the Tax Group and is responsible for complying with the Tax Group's Corporate Tax obligations. 336 Nevertheless, both the Parent Company and each Subsidiary are jointly and severally liable for Corporate Tax Payable by the Tax Group for each of the Tax Periods in which they are members of


330 Article 40(11) of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
331 Article 40(13) of the Corporate Tax Law.
332 Article 40(9) of the Corporate Tax Law.
333 Article 5(5) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
334 Article 40(10) of the Corporate Tax Law. 335 Article 40(12) of the Corporate Tax Law. 336 Article 40(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


the Tax Group.337 This liability can be limited to one or more members of the Tax Group if approved by the FTA.338

8.3.5. Taxable Income of a Tax Group

To determine the Taxable Income of a Tax Group, the Parent Company must consolidate the financial accounts of each subsidiary for the relevant Tax Period by the way of aggregation. It must eliminate transactions between the members of a Tax Group, including adjustments from valuations, and transactions between two or more members of the same Tax Group.339

The unutilised Tax Losses of a subsidiary that joins a Tax Group will become carried forward losses of the Tax Group.340 These are known as "pre-grouping Tax Losses". Pre-grouping Tax Losses that are carried forward can only be used to offset the Taxable Income of the Tax Group insofar as this income is attributable to the subsidiary which brought the Tax Losses into the Tax Group.341 The pre-grouping Tax Losses that are to be carried forward to be utilised in the Tax Group cannot exceed the 75% Tax Loss relief limit. The limit will be applied to the Taxable Income of the Tax Group (see Section 6.7.1.).342

If a new Subsidiary joins an existing Tax Group, the unutilised Tax Losses of the existing group cannot be used to offset the Taxable Income of the new Subsidiary.343 If a Subsidiary leaves a Tax Group, the Subsidiary will retain any unutilised pre- grouping Tax Losses brought into the Tax Group, but any Tax Losses incurred while it was a Subsidiary of the Tax Group will remain with the Tax Group.344

The 75% cap on the utilisation of carried forward Tax Losses and the limitation on Tax Losses carry forward are applicable at the level of the Tax Group.345








337 Article 40(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.
338 Article 40(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.
339 Article 42(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 6 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
340 Article 42(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
341 Article 42(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
342 Article 7 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
343 Article 42(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 344 Article 42(6) of the Corporate Tax Law. 345 Article 42(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 34: Formation of a Tax Group

C LLC is a UAE resident company. C LLC acquired F LLC (another UAE resident company) on 31 March 2026.

F LLC wholly owns Z LLC (another UAE resident company). C LLC owns 100% of the share capital and holds 100% of the voting rights of F LLC. F LLC owns 100% of the share capital and holds 100% of the voting rights of Z LLC. All of the companies use the same accounting standards and have the same Financial Year.

Although C LLC does not directly own any share capital or hold any voting rights in Z LLC, it does so indirectly through its ownership of Z LLC's owner, F LLC. C LLC, therefore, meets the ownership requirements of F LLC and Z LLC in order to form a Tax Group, as C LLC indirectly owns over 95% of the share capital and voting rights of both F LLC and, by extension, Z LLC.

C LLC (as the Parent Company), F LLC and Z LLC made an application to form a Tax Group, effective from the Tax Period beginning 1 September 2026.

The application to form a Tax Group was approved by the FTA. At the end of the Tax Group's first Tax Period on 31 August 2027, each group company's Accounting Income for the year, before consolidation, is as follows:

C LLC
AED 10,000,000
F LLC
AED 8,000,000
Z LLC
AED 9,000,000

During that period, F LLC and Z LLC received dividends from UAE resident companies totalling AED 3,000,000, and C LLC spent AED 250,000 on client entertainment. C LLC had AED 5,500,000 of brought forward Tax Losses from its previous Tax Period (1 September 2025 - 31 August 2026).

In order to determine its Taxable Income for the period, C LLC must first consolidate, by way of aggregation, the Accounting Income of each company in the group and then make the necessary tax adjustments, including applying its Tax Losses, at a group level.


Domestic dividends are Exempt Income for Corporate Tax purposes. As a result, the dividend income of AED 3,000,000 should be excluded from C LLC's Accounting Income.

Only 50% of entertainment expenditure is an allowable expense for Corporate Tax purposes. As a result, 50% of the expenditure (AED 250,000 x 50% = AED 125,000) must be added back to C LLC's Accounting Income.

C LLC's Taxable Income is therefore:

C LLC - Accounting Income
10,000,000
F LLC - Accounting Income
8,000,000
Z LLC - Accounting Income
9,000,000
Consolidated Accounting Income
27,000,000
Domestic dividends
(3,000,000)
Entertainment expenditure
125,000
Taxable Income
24,125,000

As the Parent Company, C LLC's Tax Losses incurred before grouping can be set off against the Taxable Income of the Tax Group. C LLC can, therefore, reduce the Tax Group's Taxable Income by a maximum of 75% for the relevant Tax Period (AED 24,125,000 x 75% = AED 18,093,750). As the amount of carried forward Tax Losses is less than this, C LLC can use the whole of its AED 5,500,000 of Tax Losses in this Tax Period. The Tax Group's final Taxable Income is therefore:


Taxable Income of Tax Group
24,125,000
Tax Losses
(5,500,000)
Final Taxable Income
18,625,000


This is the Tax Group's Taxable Income which should be reported to the FTA for the Tax Period ending on 31 August 2027.

The Tax Group's Corporate Tax liability will be as follows: 0% x 375,000	0





9. How is any Corporate Tax liability calculated?

Chapter summary

This chapter sets out how to apply Corporate Tax to Taxable Income and compute how much Corporate Tax is due. This calculation will be done in a Tax Return. The chapter also describes the available tax credits and explains how these should be applied.

Applicable Corporate Tax rates

The amount of Corporate Tax due in a Tax Period is calculated by applying the appropriate Corporate Tax rate to the Taxable Person's Taxable Income (see Chapter 6).

9.2.1. General tax rates

Corporate Tax applies to Taxable Income at the following rates:346

Taxable Income not exceeding AED 375,000
0%
Taxable Income exceeding AED 375,000
9%

Any single Taxable Person only gets to apply a 0% rate to their first AED 375,000 once per Tax Period. This continues to apply where multiple Persons have come together to form a single Taxable Person. If individual companies form a Tax Group, or an Unincorporated Partnership applies to be taxed at the partnership level, only the Taxable Person (i.e. either the Tax Group or the partnership) will be able to apply the 0% rate to the first AED 375,000 of its collective Taxable Income.

For further details on the Taxable Income threshold, readers are advised to consult Cabinet Decision No. 116 of 2022 on the Taxable Income Threshold.











346 Article 3(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.











Rate
Taxable Income (AED)
Corporate	Tax	Payable (AED)
0%
375,000
0
9%
4,625,000
416,250

Total Corporate Tax due per company
416,250
Total Corporate Tax Payable for all three companies
1,248,750







Rate
Taxable Income (AED)
Corporate Tax Payable (AED)
0%
375,000
0
9%
14,625,000
1,316,250

Total Corporate Tax Payable for all three companies
1,316,250


9.2.2. Corporate Tax rates for Qualifying Free Zone Persons

Corporate Tax applies to Qualifying Free Zone Persons at the following rates:347

Qualifying Income
0%
Taxable Income that is not Qualifying Income
9%

The Corporate Tax rate applied to Qualifying Free Zone Persons depends on whether income is Qualifying Income or not (see Section 5.5).

A Qualifying Free Zone Person is subject to the standard 9% Corporate Tax rate without being disqualified from the Free Zone regime on the following income:

* Income	that	is	attributable	to	a	domestic	or	a	foreign	Permanent Establishment;348
* Income derived from Commercial Property located in a Free Zone where the transaction is with a Person who is not a Free Zone Person;349 and
* Income derived from residential and other non-Commercial Property located in a Free Zone.350

Income from these above sources is treated as regular Taxable Income that does not benefit from the 0% rate.

Unlike ordinary Taxable Persons, Qualifying Free Zone Persons are not entitled to a 0% rate on their first AED 375,000 of Taxable Income that is not Qualifying Income. Therefore, any Taxable Income that is not Qualifying Income will be subject to tax at the general rate of 9%.

9.2.3. Withholding Tax rate

At the time of enacting the Corporate Tax Law, the rate of Withholding Tax was 0%.351 Withholding Tax should be deducted by a Resident Person from a payment made to a Non-Resident for certain categories of State Sourced Income derived by the Non- Resident Person, and remitted to the FTA. Tax credits are given to Taxable Persons


347 Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
348 Article 5 of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.
349 Article 6(1)(a) of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023. 350 Article 6(1)(b) of Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023. 351 Article 45(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


who have had Withholding Tax deducted from payments to them. (See Section 9.3.1 for more information on Withholding Tax Credit).

As the rate of Withholding Tax is currently 0%, this means that, currently, no tax needs to be withheld.

Tax credits

In some cases, Taxable Persons may be entitled to credits which they can use to offset against their Corporate Tax liability. These credits arise if they have paid tax on the same income already, either in the UAE or in a foreign country.

9.3.1. Requirements for the Withholding Tax Credit

Withholding taxes are a common form of collecting income tax on cross-border transactions. Under these regimes, tax is deducted at the source when certain payments are made to, for example, overseas Persons. Sometimes withholding taxes are also levied on domestic transactions. Typically, the payor of the income is charged with the task of deducting the tax from certain kinds of payments and remitting that amount to the tax administration.

Withholding taxes usually apply to certain types of activities by foreign parties, or activities that do not typically require a Person to register for tax, for example, dividends and interest payments in certain countries.

As part of the introduction of Corporate Tax, the UAE has introduced a Withholding Tax that applies to certain categories of income paid to a Non-Resident Person to the extent the income is not attributed to a Permanent Establishment in the UAE. 352 However, the rate of this tax is 0% meaning that, currently, no tax will need to be withheld.

If the rate is changed in future, a Non-Resident Person who becomes subject to Corporate Tax would be able to reduce their Corporate Tax Payable by any Withholding Tax that has already been deducted in the same Tax Period.353 This is known as Withholding Tax Credit. Any excess Withholding Tax Credit will be refunded.354



352 Article 45(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 353 Article 46(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 354 Article 46(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


9.3.2. Foreign Tax Credit

Corporate Tax Payable may be reduced by any available Foreign Tax Credit for the same Tax Period.355 Foreign Tax Credit is the amount of foreign taxes paid on foreign sourced income which has not been exempted. This relief is unilateral and does not rely on a Double Taxation Agreement or any other reciprocal action from the foreign taxing jurisdiction.

In order to apply Foreign Tax Credit, the pre-tax foreign income must be included in the Taxable Income of the UAE Resident Person. The amount of Corporate Tax due should be calculated based on the overall Taxable Income, and Foreign Tax Credit can then be deducted from the amount of Corporate Tax Payable.

The amount of Foreign Tax Credit cannot exceed the amount of Corporate Tax due on the foreign source income,356 and a Foreign Tax Credit cannot be carried forward or back.357 No refund will be given for unutilised Foreign Tax Credit. In addition, Foreign Tax Credit can only be applied after any Withholding Tax Credit has been applied.358

Taxable Persons must maintain all necessary records for the purposes of claiming Foreign Tax Credit.359 This could include, for example, Withholding Tax certificates, statements of payments or assessments by the relevant foreign tax authority.


355 Article 47(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 356 Article 47(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 357 Article 47(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 358 Article 44 of the Corporate Tax Law.
359 Article 47(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.




9.3.3. Impact of Double Taxation Agreements on Foreign Tax credits

Double Taxation Agreements between the UAE and other countries will generally provide for methods for the elimination of double taxation. In the event that a Resident Person derives foreign source income from a country with which the UAE has an in- force Double Taxation Agreement, the agreement with that country will generally provide either for the exemption method, the credit method or the application of both methods depending on the nature of the income and the specific provisions of the Double Taxation Agreement.

The provisions of Double Taxation Agreements take precedence over the Corporate Tax Law if the terms of the Double Taxation Agreement are inconsistent with the Corporate Tax Law.360 This treatment is internationally common and accepted.




























360 Article 66 of the Corporate Tax Law.


10. Administration of Corporate Tax

Chapter Summary

This chapter explains how the Corporate Tax Law will be administered. It includes information for Taxable Persons on their administrative compliance responsibilities, such as registration, filing, and payment, as well as further guidance on clarifications and assessments, record keeping obligations and the general anti-abuse rule.

Registration and Deregistration

All Taxable Persons should register for Corporate Tax with the FTA and obtain a Tax Registration Number for Corporate Tax.361 This needs to be done before a deadline to be determined by the FTA. All Taxable Persons are encouraged to register for Corporate Tax as soon as they become aware that they will be within the scope of Corporate Tax.

Non-Resident Persons that do not have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE and only earn State Sourced Income can choose not to register for Corporate Tax purposes. However, Non-Resident Persons that have a nexus in the UAE (arising from earning income from Immovable Property in the UAE - see Section 5.4.4) are required to register.362

The FTA can, at its discretion, register a Person for Corporate Tax if, on the basis of information available to it, the FTA believes the Person is a Taxable Person.363

If a Corporate Tax registered Person ceases to be a Taxable Person for any reason, they should file a Tax Deregistration application with the FTA.364 Tax Deregistration will only take place when all Corporate Tax liabilities and penalties due have been paid, and all Tax Returns have been filed.365 If the Tax Deregistration application is approved by the FTA, the FTA will deregister the Person for Corporate Tax purposes, with effect from the date of cessation of the Business or from such other date as may be determined by the FTA.366



361 Article 51(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
362 Article 4 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
363 Article 51(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 364 Article 52(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 365 Article 52(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 366 Article 52(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Failure to submit a deregistration application within 3 months of the date the entity ceases to exist, cessation of the Business, dissolution, liquidation or otherwise, will result in a penalty of AED 1,000, and a further AED 1,000 on the same date monthly, up to a maximum of AED 10,000. 367

For more details on the Tax Deregistration timelines refer to FTA Decision No. 6 of 2023 on Tax Deregistration Timeline.

Where a Person does not comply with the Tax Deregistration requirements, the FTA may, at its discretion and based on the information available to it, deregister the Taxable Person. This Tax Deregistration will be effective from the later of the last day of the Tax Period that the Taxable Person satisfied their Corporate Tax obligations or the date the Taxable Person ceases to exist.368

Financial Statements

Financial Statements record the financial activities and performance of a Business, and are a key element of Corporate Tax Law. A Taxable Person's Accounting Income (profit or loss) as stated in the Financial Statements is used as the starting point for calculating Taxable Income.

Taxable Persons that earn Revenue that does not exceed AED 3,000,000 in the Tax Period may use the Cash Basis of Accounting.369

Once a Taxable Person's Revenue exceeds AED 3,000,000 in the Tax Period, they must prepare Financial Statements using the Accrual Basis of Accounting except under exceptional circumstances and following the FTA's approval.370

Taxable Persons must prepare Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS. However, Taxable Persons that earn Revenue that does not exceed AED 50,000,000 may apply IFRS for SMEs.371

Applying IFRS creates a common definition of Accounting Income across business types and industries. For further details on accounting standards for Corporate Tax,




367 Cabinet Decision No. 75 of 2023.
368 Article 52(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
369 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
370 Article 20(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
371 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.


readers are advised to consult Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for Corporate Tax Purposes.372

The FTA can, by notice or by issuing a decision, request a Taxable Person to submit the Financial Statements used to determine their Taxable Income.373 Where a Taxable Person is a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership, the FTA can request the partner to submit Financial Statements that show both the partnership's overall assets, liabilities, income and expenditure, and the partner's distributable share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure.374

Some Taxable Persons may be required to maintain audited Financial Statements. This means that the Financial Statements must be checked by an external licensed auditor.375

The following Persons are required to maintain audited Financial Statements:376

* A Taxable Person deriving Revenue exceeding AED 50,000,000 during the relevant Tax Period; and
* A Qualifying Free Zone Person.

For further details on audited Financial Statements, readers are advised to consult Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023 on Maintaining Audited Financial Statements.377

Applications and elections

In order to apply some of the provisions in the Corporate Tax Law, Taxable Persons will need to make the relevant elections or applications.

Elections can be applied unilaterally by Taxable Persons, and do not require an approval from the FTA to give effect to the Corporate Tax treatment. In order for an election to become effective, it is only necessary for a Taxable Person to inform the FTA of their decision. No action or confirmation from the FTA is needed. Taxable Persons can elect to:




372 Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023. 373 Article 54(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 374 Article 54(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 375 Article 54(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
376 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023.
377 Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023.


* Benefit from the small business relief;378
* Exempt their Foreign Permanent Establishment income;379
* Account for gains and losses on a realisation basis;380
* Be subject to Corporate Tax at the general rate, if they are a Qualifying Free Zone Person; 381
* Apply the relief in relation to transfers in a Qualifying Group;382
* Apply the business restructuring relief;383 and
* Apply Transitional Relief.384

Unlike elections, applications require approval by the FTA. For example, a group of companies cannot form a Tax Group without having made an application and received an approval from the FTA.385 Provisions which require a Taxable Person to make an application cannot take effect until the FTA has approved the application.

Taxable Persons will be required to demonstrate that they meet any necessary criteria, and the FTA can ask for any additional information it requires to make its decision. The following is a non-exhaustive list of aspects of the Corporate Tax Law which require an application from a Taxable Person to the FTA:

* To be exempt from Corporate Tax, if the Person is a public pension fund or a public social security fund, a private pension fund or a private social security fund that meet the relevant conditions, or a Qualifying Investment Fund;386
* To be exempt from Corporate Tax, if they are a juridical person that is wholly owned and controlled by certain types of Exempt Persons387 and meet the relevant condition (e.g. used exclusively for holding assets or investing funds for the benefit of the Exempt Person);388
* To continue to be exempt from Corporate Tax if the Person temporarily fails to meet the conditions of exemption;389



378 Article 21(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No.73 of 2023.
379 Article 24(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
380 Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No.134 of 2023.
381 Article 19(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
382 Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
383 Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law. 384 Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023. 385 Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 386 Article 4(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
387 Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law.
388 Articles 4(1)(h) and 4(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
389 Article 4(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023 .


* To treat a Government Entity's taxable Businesses as a single Taxable Person;390
* To treat an Unincorporated Partnership as a single Taxable Person;391
* To treat a Family Foundation as an Unincorporated Partnership;392
* To request a clarification from the FTA;393
* To request a refund from the FTA;394
* To adjust Taxable Income following an adjustment by a foreign tax authority;395
* To move from the Cash Basis of Accounting to Accrual Basis of Accounting;396
* To form, join or leave a Tax Group, replace a Parent Company in a Tax Group, or cease to be a Tax Group;397
* To deregister for Corporate Tax;398 and
* To change their Tax Period.399

Tax Returns and payments

Consistent with Corporate Tax being a self-assessed regime, Taxable Persons should pay Corporate Tax and file their Corporate Tax Return within 9 months from the end of the relevant Tax Period.400 For example, a Taxable Person with a Financial Year ending on 31 December is required to file their Tax Return and pay Corporate Tax on or before 30 September the following year.

Submitting a Tax Return late or a delay in making a payment of Corporate Tax Payable will result in a penalty of:

* AED 500 for each month of delay, or part thereof, for the first twelve months;
* AED 1,000 for each month of delay, or part thereof, from the thirteenth month onwards.401




390 Article 5(6) of the Corporate Tax Law. 391 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law. 392 Article 17(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 393 Article 59(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 394 Article 49(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 395 Article 34(11) of the Corporate Tax Law. 396 Article 20(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.
397 Articles 40(1), 40(3), 40(9), 40(10), 40(11) and 40(12) of the Corporate Tax Law.
398 Article 52(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
399 Article 58 of the Corporate Tax Law.
400 Articles 48 and 53 of the Corporate Tax Law.
401 Cabinet Decision No. 75 of 2023.


The Tax Return can be submitted by the Taxable Person, or another Person who has the right to do so on the Taxable Person's behalf, for example, a tax agent or a legal representative.

Where a Tax Group has been formed, the Parent Company will be required to file Tax Returns on behalf of the whole Tax Group. There is no need for a separate return to be filed for each member of the Tax Group.402

In addition to the information required in the Tax Return, the Taxable Person must also provide any other information reasonably required by the FTA, including for example, the Financial Statements used to calculate Taxable Income.403

Clarifications and assessments

Certainty is an important hallmark of an efficient tax regime, and it is considered international best practice to create a stable tax environment in which Persons can be certain about their Corporate Tax treatment.

Tax clarifications provide an opportunity for Persons to obtain certainty on their tax position upfront. A Person can apply to the FTA for a clarification regarding the application of the Corporate Tax Law.404

The FTA may undertake an assessment of a Person's Corporate Tax affairs under specific circumstances and conditions to be prescribed by the FTA.405

If the tax position reported by the Taxable Person is not accurate, or administrative requirements have not been fulfilled, the Taxable Person may be liable for penalties under the Tax Procedures Law and the Corporate Tax Law.406

Record keeping

Taxable Persons are required to maintain records and documentation that:

* support the information provided in a Tax Return or in any other document to be submitted to the FTA;407 and

402 Article 53(7) of the Corporate Tax Law. 403 Article 53(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 404 Article 59(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 405 Article 60(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
406 Article 60 of the Corporate Tax Law, Tax Procedures Law and Cabinet Decision No. 75 of 2023.
407 Article 56(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* enable the Taxable Person's Taxable Income to be readily ascertained by the FTA.408

The FTA may request that a Taxable Person submits the Financial Statements used to determine their Taxable Income for a given Tax Period.409 These documents should, therefore, be maintained by all Taxable Persons.

Apart from Financial Statements, the Corporate Tax Law does not specify which records or documentation should be maintained, or the format in which they should be kept. This reflects the fact that the records and documentation required will differ according to the type and complexity of the Business that the Taxable Person conducts.

Notwithstanding differences between Taxable Persons, the information maintained should typically include, but it is not limited to:

* A record of the Taxable Person's transactions in the Tax Period;
* A record of the Taxable Person's assets, including details of any purchases or disposals;
* A record of the Taxable Person's liabilities; and
* A record of any stock held at the end of the Tax Period.

Examples of specific documents which might be kept include but are not limited to:
* Bank statements;
* Loan or financing documentation;
* Sale and purchase ledgers;
* Invoices or other records of daily earnings, such as till rolls;
* Order records and delivery notes; and
* Other relevant business correspondence.

There is no requirement that these documents are maintained in their original format and it may be possible to keep them in an alternative format. For example, paper receipts could be scanned and stored electronically.

Failure of a Taxable Person to keep the required records and other information specified in the Tax Procedures Law and Corporate Tax Law will result in one of the following penalties:


408 Article 56(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
409 Article 54(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* AED 10,000 for each violation;
* AED 20,000 in each case of repeated violation within 24 months from the date of the last violation.410

10.7.1. Exempt Persons

Exempt Persons must maintain records that enable the Exempt Person's status to be readily ascertained by the FTA.411 The documentation required will depend on the reason that a Person is exempt from Corporate Tax.

10.7.2. How long should records be kept?

Taxable Persons and Exempt Persons must keep records and documents for seven years following the end of the Tax Period to which they relate.412

This requirement applies to the Tax Period to which the documents relate, and not the Tax Period in which they were created. For example, if a Taxable Person uses the cash basis accounting method, they may have invoices or bills which were raised in a Tax Period before the one in which they were paid. In this instance, the seven-year period starts from the Tax Period in which the invoices or bills were paid.

Taxable Persons and Exempt Persons are responsible for maintaining all their records and documents. Taxable Persons must provide the FTA with any information, documents or records reasonably required by the FTA when requested to do so. The records must therefore be easily accessible if the FTA requests them.

General anti-abuse rule

A general anti-abuse rule is used to prevent the use of 'abusive' transactions or arrangements, which may be legal within the parameters of the Law, but are not in- line with the Law's intended spirit and purpose.413

The rule allows the FTA to counteract or adjust Corporate Tax advantages obtained as a result of transactions or arrangements which are considered to be abusive (by the application of a test).414 The test is whether, having regard to all of the relevant circumstances, it can be reasonably concluded that the transactions and

410 Cabinet Decision No. 75 of 2023.
411 Article 56(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
412 Articles 56(1) and 56(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
413 Article 50(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
414 Article 50(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


arrangements were entered into without a valid commercial reason and their main purpose is to obtain a Corporate Tax advantage that is not consistent with the intention of the Law.415





















































415 Article 50(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


11. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
September 2023
* First version

	











Investment Funds and Investment Managers
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGIFM1

May 2024


Contents
1. Glossary	4
2. Introduction	10
2.1. Overview	10
2.2. Purpose of this guide	10
2.3. Who should read this guide?	10
2.4. How to use this guide	10
2.5. Legislative references	11
2.6. Status of this guide	12
3. What are investment funds and investment managers? 14
3.1. Investment funds landscape in the UAE	15
3.2. Rationale for exempting Qualifying Investment Funds	16
4. Investment Funds and the Corporate Tax Law	18
4.1. Corporate Tax treatment of investment funds	18
4.1.1. Treatment of investment fund entities that are Resident Persons	18
4.1.2. Treatment of investment fund entities that are Unincorporated Partnerships . 18 4.1.3. Treatment of non-resident investment funds	19
4.2. Treatment for investment managers	20
4.3. Overview of Qualifying Investment Fund status	20
4.3.1. Impact of Qualifying Investment Fund status	20
4.4. Treatment of investors in a Qualifying Investment Fund	21
4.4.1. Inclusion of the fund's net income in the income of investors	21
4.4.2. Allocation of income between Exempt Income, Interest income, income from Immovable Property in the UAE and other income	23
4.4.3. Time apportionment of income	30
4.4.4. Treatment of distributions	31
4.4.5. Application of other Corporate Tax provisions	33
4.4.6. Treatment of Exempt Persons held by Qualifying Investment Funds	34
4.4.7. Impact of ceasing to be part of a Qualifying Group	34
4.4.8. Impact of leaving a Tax Group or causing a Tax Group to cease to exist	35
4.4.9. Impact on relief for Tax Losses	36
5. Conditions for being a Qualifying Investment Fund	37

5.1.1. Persons eligible for Qualifying Investment Fund status	38
5.1.2. Impact of not meeting the conditions in later Tax Periods	39
5.2. Regulatory oversight condition	40
5.3. Fund ownership condition	42
5.4. Main purpose condition	42
5.5. Investment Business condition	43
5.5.1. Meaning of Investment Business	43
5.5.2. Distinction between Business of the Investment Manager and the Investment Business	43
5.5.3. Examples of other activities treated as Investment Business	44
5.5.4. Ancillary or incidental Business Activities	46
5.5.5. Application to feeder funds	47
5.6. Diversity of ownership condition	49
5.6.1. Overview	49
5.6.2. Application of condition on indirect ownership	49
5.6.3. Application to feeder funds	51
5.6.4. Application to parallel funds	53
5.6.5. Application during the first years of an investment fund	54
5.7. Investment Manager condition	55
5.8. Independence condition	56
5.9. Additional conditions applicable to REITs	57
5.9.1. REIT minimum real estate asset value condition	57
5.9.2. REIT ownership condition: Recognised Stock Exchange and Institutional Investor	57
5.9.3. REIT real estate percentage condition	59
5.10. Conditions for Exempt Person status for entity held by a Qualifying Investment Fund	60
5.10.1. Overview	60
5.10.2. Juridical person incorporated in the UAE	61
5.10.3. Wholly owned and controlled by Qualifying Investment Funds	62
6. Corporate Tax compliance requirements	64
6.1. Applying for Qualifying Investment Fund exemption	64
6.2. Earliest date an application can be effective	64
7. Investment Manager Exemption	65

7.2. Impact of not meeting the Investment Manager Exemption	66
7.3. Investment management or brokerage services condition	67
7.3.1. Investment managers services	67
7.3.2. Brokerage services	68
7.4. Regulatory oversight condition	69
7.5. Ordinary course of Business condition	69
7.6. Independent capacity condition	70
7.7. Arm's length condition	71
7.8. No other representation relation condition	73
7.9. Other conditions	74
8. Updates and Amendments	75

1. Glossary

AED: The United Arab Emirates Dirham.

Authority: Federal Tax Authority.

Bank: A Person licensed in the UAE as a bank or finance institution or an equivalent licensed activity that allows the taking of deposits and the granting of credits as defined in the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or activities, conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business Restructuring Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for Business restructuring transactions, available under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.

Control: The direction and influence over one Person by another Person in accordance with the conditions of Article 35(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments.

Dividend: Any payments or distributions that are declared or paid on or in respect of shares or other rights participating in the profits of the issuer of such shares or rights which do not constitute a return on capital or a return on debt claims, whether such payments or distributions are in cash, securities, or other properties, and whether payable out of profits or retained earnings or from any account or legal reserve or from capital reserve or revenue. This will include any payment or benefit which in substance or effect constitutes a distribution of profits made in connection with the acquisition or redemption or cancellation of shares or termination of other ownership interests or rights or any transaction or arrangement with a Related Party or Connected Person which does not comply with Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.


Double Taxation Agreement: An international agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Exempt Income: Any income exempt from Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Exempt Person: A Person exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Federal Government: The government of the UAE.

Financial Year: The Gregorian calendar year, or the twelve-month period for which the Taxable Person prepares Financial Statements.

Foreign Partnership: A relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the laws of a foreign jurisdiction.

Foreign Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence outside the UAE of a Resident Person that is determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed in Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Foreign Tax Credit: Tax paid under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction on income or profits that may be deducted from the Corporate Tax due, in accordance with the conditions of Article 47(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established, or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

Government Controlled Entity: Any juridical person, directly or indirectly wholly owned and controlled by a Government Entity, as specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.


Government Entity: The Federal Government, Local Governments, ministries, government departments, government agencies, authorities and public institutions of the Federal Government or Local Governments.

Immovable Property: Means any of the following:
a. Any area of land over which rights or interests or services can be created.
b. Any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed.
c. Any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.

Insurance Provider: A Person licensed in the UAE as an insurance provider that accepts risks by entering into or carrying out contracts of insurance, in both the life and non-life sectors, including contracts of reinsurance and captive insurance, as defined in the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Interest: Any amount accrued or paid for the use of money or credit, including discounts, premiums and profit paid in respect of an Islamic financial instrument and other payments economically equivalent to interest, and any other amounts incurred in connection with the raising of finance, excluding payments of the principal amount.

International Agreement: Any bilateral or multilateral agreement, or any other agreement to which the UAE is a party, that has been ratified by the parties.

Investment Business: The issuing of investment interests to raise funds or pool investor funds or establish a joint investment fund with the aim of enabling the holder of such an investment interest to benefit from the profits or gains resulting from the entity's acquisition, holding, management or disposal of investments, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Investment Manager: A Person who provides brokerage or investment management services that is subject to the regulatory oversight of the competent authority in the UAE.

Investment Manager Exemption: The treatment of an Investment Manager as an independent agent of a Non-Resident Person, available under Article 15 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Licence: A document issued by a Licensing Authority under which a Business or Business Activity is conducted in the UAE.


Licensing Authority: The competent authority concerned with licensing or authorising a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Local Government: Any of the governments of the Member Emirates of the Federation.

Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.

Net Interest Expenditure: The Interest expenditure amount that is in excess of the Interest income amount as determined in accordance with the provisions of Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Parent Company: A Resident Person that can make an application to the FTA to form a Tax Group with one or more Subsidiaries in accordance with Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participating Interest: An ownership interest in the shares or capital of a juridical person that meets the conditions referred to in Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participation: The juridical person in which the Participating Interest is held.

Participation Exemption: An exemption from Corporate Tax for income from a Participating Interest, available under Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.

Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.

Personal Investment: Investment activity that a natural person conducts for their personal account that is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022.

Qualifying Free Zone Person: Free Zone Person that meets the conditions of Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law and is subject to Corporate Tax under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.



Qualifying Group: Two or more Taxable Persons that meet the conditions of Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Group Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for transfers within a Qualifying Group, available under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.

Qualifying Investment Fund: Any entity whose principal activity is the issuing of investment interests to raise funds or pool investor funds or establish a joint investment fund with the aim of enabling the holder of such an investment interest to benefit from the profits or gains from the entity's acquisition, holding, management or disposal of investments, in accordance with the applicable legislation and when it meets the conditions set out in Article 10 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Real Estate Asset Percentage: The portion of the Real Estate Income generating assets as a percentage of the total value of the assets of the investment fund.

Real Estate Gains: Gains derived from the sale or disposal of land or real estate.

Real Estate Income: Income derived from renting of land or real estate, excluding Real Estate Gains.

Real Estate Investment Trust ("REIT"): A real estate fund as defined in the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Recognised Stock Exchange: Any stock exchange established in the UAE that is licensed and regulated by the relevant competent authority, or any stock exchange established outside the UAE of equal standing.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.

State: United Arab Emirates.

State Sourced Income: Income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE as specified in Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.


Tax Group: Two or more Taxable Persons treated as a single Taxable Person according to the conditions of Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Loss: Any negative Taxable Income as calculated under the Corporate Tax Law for a given Tax Period.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.

Unincorporated Partnership: A relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Withholding Tax: Corporate Tax to be withheld from State Sourced Income in accordance with Article 45 of the Corporate Tax Law.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance to help persons understand the UAE Corporate Tax treatment for investment funds, investors, and investments with the assistance of Investment Managers. This guide explains some of the terms and conditions in the Corporate Tax Law, and sets out the following:
* an overview of the meaning of Qualifying Investment Fund and Investment Manager,
* conditions for a Qualifying Investment Fund to be exempt from Corporate Tax,
* conditions for a Real Estate Investment Trust ("REIT") to be exempt from Corporate Tax,
* tax implications for an investor investing in a Qualifying Investment Fund,
* conditions for a foreign person to benefit from the Investment Manager Exemption as specified under Article 15 of the Corporate Tax Law, and
* relevant Corporate Tax compliance requirements for the above.

2.3. Who should read this guide?

Any Person seeking to apply either the exemption for Qualifying Investment Funds or the Investment Manager Exemption. This guide will be useful for investors, financial advisors, tax professionals, and individuals involved in managing or advising investment funds and provides insights into tax implications, exemptions, and regulations relevant to these entities.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant Articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.


It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Corporate Tax Law apply to Qualifying Investment Funds and Investment Managers. The examples in the guide:
- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show all the possible interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes, and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments, is referred to as the "Corporate Tax Law",
* Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022 Issuing the Commercial Transactions Law is referred to as "Commercial Transactions Law",
* Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 on Specifying the Categories of Businesses or Business Activities Conducted by a Resident or Non-Resident Natural Person that are Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023",
* Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023 on Determination of a Non-Resident Person's Nexus in the State for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023",
* Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023 on Conditions for Qualifying Investment Funds for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023",
* Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023 on the Determination of the Conditions under which a Person may Continue to be Deemed as an Exempt Person, or Cease to be Deemed as an Exempt Person from a Different Date for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023",
* Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023 on the Participation Exemption for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023",


* Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023 on the Adjustments Under the Transitional Rules for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023",
* Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023 on the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023",
* Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023 on Unincorporated Partnership, Foreign Partnership and Family Foundation for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023",
* Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023 on Transfers Within a Qualifying Group for the purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023",
* Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023 on the General Rules for Determining Taxable Income for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023",
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 7 of 2023 Provisions of Exemption from Corporate Tax for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023", and
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 11 of 2023 Provisions of Exemption from Corporate Tax for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 11 of 2023".

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding statement but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stands when the guide is published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of the Qualifying Investment Fund and Investment Manager Exemption rules. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.


This document is subject to change without notice.


3. What are investment funds and investment managers?

In broad terms, investment funds invest funds received from investors on a collective basis in accordance with a defined investment policy. In return, investors share in the profits of the investment fund.

An investment fund can consist of one or several entities. Any group of entities that aim to pool funds from investors to invest on a collective basis can be referred to as an "investment fund". An investment fund can use the same type of corporate entities that are available to Businesses more generally, including joint liability companies, limited partnership companies, limited liability companies, public joint stock companies and private joint stock companies. Similarly, an investment fund could also use unincorporated partnerships or investment trusts. If an investment fund is incorporated in a Free Zone, it can similarly use the corporate entity types that are available in a Free Zone. In addition, an investment fund could include entities incorporated outside the UAE.

Investment funds commonly include marketable security funds, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, money-market funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, and real estate funds. Investment funds may also be referred to as alternative investment funds that primarily invest in the specialist "non-traditional" asset classes.

Generally, an investor in an investment fund provides capital or assets to the fund with the aim of a return on investment. The investment fund uses this capital to make investments, undertake Business Activities, and generate profits or returns. Investors in an investment fund can include any range of persons, such as pension funds, sovereign wealth funds, endowment plans, family offices, natural persons, foundations, insurance companies and any other persons.

An investment fund may appoint an investment manager who will make investment decisions on behalf of the investment fund, in line with a pre-agreed investment policy and applicable investment procedures. Sometimes, all or a portion of those activities will be carried out by an investment advisor or a general partner. An investment manager or an investment advisor may also subcontract a portion of their activities to other group entities, usually called "investment subadvisors". Similarly, some funds may also appoint a custodian, general partner or trustee, who holds certain assets on behalf of the fund or the investors or performs certain administrative tasks. In addition, an investment fund could have a dedicated sponsor which could be responsible for establishing and overseeing the fund.

If there is a main investment fund entity, investors will directly or indirectly hold a stake in the main investment fund entity. It is possible that investors hold their stake through one or several other entities, either wholly owned by them or as pooling vehicles with


other investors. If these holding vehicles are managed by the investment manager of the main investment fund entity, these vehicles could be regarded as feeder funds (or sometimes feeder entities) and would normally be regarded as investment fund entities.

The investment manager can receive income from its investment management activities through charging a pre-agreed management fee (for example, equivalent to a percentage of capital committed, capital invested or assets under management), a performance fee (for example, a portion of excess returns), or a co-investment (such as a carried interest investment).


3.1. Investment funds landscape in the UAE

Investment funds activity in the UAE reflects the broad range of financial investment products consistent with similar products available in global markets. UAE funds generally include:
* Public funds, which are available to the general public at large.
* Private funds, which are not accessible to the wider public. Private funds are only offered to professional investors.

Investment funds can be open-ended or close-ended. Open-ended investment funds have variable capital that increases according to the new issued units and decreases by the redemption of existing units. Close-ended investment funds have fixed capital whose units are redeemed only on the expiry of the fund, unless the relevant regulatory


authority approves an increase of its capital by new subscriptions or reduction of its capital by the existing units redeemed.

In addition, investment funds can be based on specific investment themes, specific underlying asset classes, or specific sectors. Private equity funds, venture capital funds, private credit funds, infrastructure funds, real estate funds, umbrella funds, money market funds, exchange traded funds, funds investing in crypto tokens, feeder funds, real estate investment trusts and debt funds are terms that usually refer to the type of assets the fund invests in the UAE. Hedge funds usually refer to funds with a specific type of trading strategy. Islamic funds usually refer to a joint pool wherein the investors contribute their surplus money for the purpose of its investment to earn halal profits in strict conformity with the precepts of Islamic Sharia.

In the investment fund industry, these and many other terms are used to refer to different types of investment funds. These terms may sometimes have a narrow technical meaning, but sometimes they do not have a fixed meaning and are used loosely. In the context of the Corporate Tax Law, the provisions of the Qualifying Investment Fund exemption and the Investment Manager Exemption are not restricted to a specific investment fund or strategy and can apply to any investment fund, where the relevant conditions are met.

3.2. Rationale for exempting Qualifying Investment Funds

Investment funds generally allow investors of various sizes to benefit from investment opportunities that would otherwise only be available for investors with a certain scale, network or expertise, thereby creating a more even playing field for investors, which can stimulate economic growth and development.

The Corporate Tax Law seeks to ensure neutrality such that investors of an investment fund are in a similar Corporate Tax position as if they had invested directly in the underlying assets of the fund. It is internationally common for a tax system to provide for neutrality between direct investments and investment through collective investment vehicles by not subjecting the income of such entities to taxation or burdensome compliance obligations.

In line with this, investment funds that are structured as Unincorporated Partnerships will be treated as transparent for Corporate Tax purposes which generally achieves an outcome similar to one where the ultimate investor had invested directly. For investment funds that are not structured as Unincorporated Partnerships, a similar outcome can be achieved by exempting the investment fund from Corporate Tax as a Qualifying Investment Fund. This will prevent tax at the level of the investment fund and only the investors would be taxed on the investment returns.


In addition, investment funds play a crucial role in providing liquidity to financial markets by pooling funds from multiple investors and investing in a diversified portfolio of assets. A tax exemption can facilitate more efficient capital allocation and trading activities within financial markets, thereby enhancing overall market liquidity. It can also encourage innovation in financial products and services, as investment managers have more flexibility to structure investment vehicles that meet the diverse needs of investors. This can lead to the development of new investment strategies, products, and markets, fostering financial innovation and competitiveness.


4. Investment funds and the Corporate Tax Law

4.1. Corporate Tax treatment of investment funds

4.1.1. Treatment of investment fund entities that are Resident Persons

In line with Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law, any entity that forms part of a fund structure and that is a juridical person will be regarded as a Resident Person if it is incorporated in the UAE or incorporated outside the UAE and effectively managed and controlled in the UAE.

An investment fund entity that is considered a Resident Person will be subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE. However, an investment fund entity can apply to the FTA for exemption from Corporate Tax as a Qualifying Investment Fund provided that the relevant conditions are met (as discussed in Section 5).1 An investment fund entity can only apply for the exemption after it has been registered with the FTA as a Taxable Person.

Where an application is approved, the Qualifying Investment Fund will be an Exempt Person and will not be subject to Corporate Tax. However, each investor in the Qualifying Investment Fund that is a Taxable Person will include their proportional part of the Qualifying Investment Fund's net income available for distribution as reflected in the financial statements of the Qualifying Investment Fund in their own income, in accordance with Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law, as explained further in Section 4.3.2

4.1.2. Treatment	of	investment	fund	entities	that	are	Unincorporated Partnerships

An investment fund established as an Unincorporated Partnership in accordance with the Corporate Tax Law is not considered a juridical person and will not be treated as a Taxable Person in its own right (i.e. the fund is transparent for Corporate Tax purposes). Income derived by such an Unincorporated Partnership would be treated as earned by the investors (partners) for Corporate Tax Purposes.3

A Foreign Partnership, established in accordance with the laws of a foreign jurisdiction, is treated as an Unincorporated Partnership provided that it meets the requirements of Article 16(7) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023.

1 Article 10(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
2 Article 4 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
3 Article 16(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.



The investors (partners) in an Unincorporated Partnership may apply to the FTA for the Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a separate Taxable Person (fiscally opaque), provided that the relevant conditions are met. 4 If the FTA approves the application:
* The investors in the fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership will not include the income and expenditure of the Unincorporated Partnership in their own income for Corporate Tax purposes, 5 unless that Unincorporated Partnership becomes a Qualifying Investment Fund.6
* The fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership can apply to be exempt from Corporate Tax as a Qualifying Investment Fund if the relevant conditions are met.7

4.1.3. Treatment of non-resident investment funds

An investment fund entity that is established as a juridical person outside of the UAE will not be a Resident Person, provided that the entity is not effectively managed and controlled in the UAE.8 However, such a non-resident investment fund entity would be subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE if it has:9
* a Permanent Establishment in the UAE (typically no Permanent Establishment should exist in cases where the conditions of the Investment Manager Exemption are met),
* State Sourced Income, or
* a nexus in the UAE as specified in Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.

A Non-Resident Person with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE will be subject to Corporate Tax on income that is attributable to that Permanent Establishment.10

State Sourced Income derived by a Non-Resident Person, that is not attributable to a Permanent Establishment, may be subject to Withholding Tax. However, Withholding Tax is currently set at the rate of 0%.11

The concept of nexus is applicable only to a Non-Resident Person that is a juridical person. Such a Non-Resident Person will have a nexus in the UAE if they earn income from Immovable Property in the UAE.12

4 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
5 Article 16(9) of the Corporate Tax Law.
6 Article 4 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
7 Article 10(1) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
8 Article 11(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
9 Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
10 Article 12(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
11 Article 45(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
12 Article 2 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.



4.2. Treatment for investment managers

Investment managers usually earn a fee for the provision of brokerage or investment management services. If an investment manager is a Resident Person, such a fee is within the scope of UAE Corporate Tax. Fees earned from a Qualifying Investment Fund would be included in the investment manager's Taxable Income, similar to any other income from the investment manager's Business Activities.

If the investment manager is a Non-Resident Person, it may also be subject to Corporate Tax if it meets any of the conditions mentioned in Section 4.1.3 above.13 If the investment manager has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, the fees earned by the investment manager would be subject to Corporate Tax if they can be attributed to the Permanent Establishment.14 If the investment manager receives its income as State Sourced Income, it may be subject to Withholding Tax on the State Sourced Income. However, the current Withholding Tax rate on State Sourced Income is 0%.15

4.3. Overview of Qualifying Investment Fund status

4.3.1. Impact of Qualifying Investment Fund status

A Qualifying Investment Fund is exempt from UAE Corporate Tax and is an Exempt Person. This means:
* The Qualifying Investment Fund will not be a Taxable Person.16
* The Qualifying Investment Fund cannot form part of a Qualifying Group for the purposes of Qualifying Group Relief.17
* The Qualifying Investment Fund is not entitled to benefit from Business Restructuring Relief for transfers of an entire Business or an independent part of a Business.18
* The Qualifying Investment Fund is not entitled to benefit from the provisions for the transfer of Tax Losses.19
* The Qualifying Investment Fund cannot form part of a Tax Group.20




13 Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
14 Article 12(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
15 Article 45(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
16 Article 4(1)(f) and Article 10 of the Corporate Tax Law.
17 Article 26(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 18 Article 27(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 19 Article 38(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 20 Article 40(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* The Qualifying Investment Fund must maintain all records to enable its status to be readily ascertained by the FTA for a minimum period of 7 years.21 The FTA requires the Qualifying Investment Fund to file an annual declaration confirming that it continues to meet the exemption conditions.22

As a Qualifying Investment Fund remains within the scope of Corporate Tax, it is considered liable to tax.

4.4. Treatment of investors in a Qualifying Investment Fund

4.4.1. Inclusion of the fund's net income in the income of investors

If an investor in a Qualifying Investment Fund is a Taxable Person, they are required to include in their income, their proportional share of the amount reflected as net income available for distribution in the financial statements of the Qualifying Investment Fund.23 For these purposes, net income available for distribution of the Qualifying Investment Fund is allocated between Exempt Income, Interest income, income from Immovable Property in the UAE and other income (as explained further below).

Resident Persons

For a Resident Person investor that is a juridical person and that holds an ownership interest in a Qualifying Investment Fund, any net income available for distribution that is not Exempt Income will be treated as Taxable Income.24

For a Resident Person investor that is a natural person and that holds an ownership interest in a Qualifying Investment Fund, any net income available for distribution that is not Exempt Income will be treated as Taxable Income if the natural person holds the ownership interests in the Qualifying Investment Fund as part of a Business or Business Activity conducted by the natural person.25 This could be the case if a natural person undertakes investment activities that require a Licence from a Licensing Authority, or is considered part of a commercial business in accordance with the Commercial Transactions Law.





21 Article 56(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
22 Article 2(4) of FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023.
23 Article 4 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
24 Article 12(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
25 Article 12(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


However, if the natural person holds the ownership interest as a Personal Investment, the net income of the Qualifying Investment Fund will not be treated as Taxable Income of the natural person.26


Non-Resident Persons

For a Non-Resident Person that holds an ownership interest in a Qualifying Investment Fund, any net income that is not Exempt Income will be taken into account for Corporate Tax purposes if it is attributable to a Permanent Establishment of the Non- Resident Person in the UAE.

An investor that is a Non-Resident Person and a juridical person that holds an ownership interest in a Qualifying Investment Fund which earns income from Immovable Property in the UAE, is earning income from that Immovable Property and, therefore, has a nexus in the UAE, as specified in Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.27 The proportional part of net income from Immovable Property in the UAE shall be treated as Taxable Income of that investor.

A Non-Resident Person that holds an ownership interest in a Qualifying Investment Fund may derive State Sourced Income, however, the current Withholding Tax rate on State Sourced Income is 0%.28

Exempt Persons

If an Exempt Person holds an ownership interest in a Qualifying Investment Fund, it will not be subject to Corporate Tax on the net income from the Qualifying Investment Fund. However, if an Exempt Person is treated as a Taxable Person in relation to certain Business or Business Activities under Article 4(2) of the Corporate Tax Law, such an Exempt Person shall treat any net income from a Qualifying Investment Fund (that is not Exempt Income) as Taxable Income only to the extent that it holds an

26 Article 2 of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
27 Article 2 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
28 Article 12(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


ownership interest in a Qualifying Investment Fund as part of its taxable Business or Business Activity.

If a Qualifying Investment Fund ("Fund 1") holds an ownership interest in another Qualifying Investment Fund ("Fund 2"), any net income of Fund 2 that is available for distribution will be proportionally included in the net income of Fund 1 that is available for distribution, allocated between net Exempt Income, net Interest income, net income from Immovable Property in the UAE and other net income and, therefore, ultimately included in the income of any investors in Fund 1 that are Taxable Persons.

4.4.2. Allocation of income between Exempt Income, Interest income, income from Immovable Property in the UAE and other income

4.4.2.1. At the Qualifying Investment Fund level

The Qualifying Investment Fund shall allocate the amount reflected as net income available for distribution in its financial statements into four categories:
* Exempt Income,
* Interest income,
* income from Immovable Property in the UAE, and
* other income.

Exempt income

Exempt Income includes Dividend income from Resident Persons,29 Dividend income from a Participating Interest in a foreign juridical person which meets the conditions of the Participation Exemption,30 and capital gains, foreign exchange gains or losses and impairment gains or losses in relation to a Participating Interest which meets the conditions of the Participation Exemption.31

An ownership interest in a juridical person should be a Participating Interest held by the Qualifying Investment Fund, if the following conditions are met:32
* the Qualifying Investment Fund has held, or has the intention to hold, the Participating Interest for an uninterrupted period of at least 12 months,
* the Participation is subject to Corporate Tax or any other tax imposed under the applicable legislation of the country or territory in which the juridical person is resident which is of a similar character to Corporate Tax at a rate not less than the rate specified in Article 3(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law (i.e. 9%),


29 Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 30 Article 22(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 31 Article 23(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 32 Article 23(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* the ownership interest in the Participation entitles the Qualifying Investment Fund to receive not less than 5% of the profits available for distribution by the Participation, and not less than 5% of the liquidation proceeds on cessation of the Participation,
* not more than 50% of the direct and indirect assets of the Participation consist of ownership interests or entitlements that would not have qualified for the Participation Exemption if held directly by the Qualifying Investment Fund, subject to any conditions that may be prescribed under Article 23(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law, and
* all other conditions in relation to the Participation Exemption have been met.33

Exempt Income does not include Dividends from:
* Exempt Persons, and
* ownership interests in a foreign Person, if such ownership interests are not Participating Interests.

The question of whether shares or other ownership interests qualify as Participating Interests held by the Qualifying Investment Fund should be assessed at the level of the Qualifying Investment Fund. This applies, for instance, to the requirement to hold an ownership interest of at least 5%.34 This requirement shall be met if the Qualifying Investment Fund holds an ownership interest of at least 5%, even if the investor's proportional stake in the underlying Participation amounts to less than 5%. This similarly applies to the requirement to hold the Participation for at least 12 months.35 This requirement shall be met if the Qualifying Investment Fund held the Participation for at least 12 months, even if the investor held their stake in the fund for a shorter period.

Interest income

Interest income refers to the amount accrued or paid for the use of money or credit, including discounts, premiums and profit paid in respect of an Islamic Financial Instrument and other payments economically equivalent to interest, and any other amounts incurred in connection with the raising of finance, excluding payments of the principal amount.36

Interest also includes, but is not limited to, the interest component on any of the following:37


33 Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
34 Article 23(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
35 Article 23(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
36 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
37 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023


* performing and non-performing debt instruments,
* interests held in collective investment schemes that primarily invest in cash and cash equivalents,
* collateralised asset backed debt securities and similar instruments,
* agreements for the sale and subsequent repurchase of the same security at a future date at an agreed upon price,
* stock lending and similar agreements for the disposal of a security subject to an obligation or right to reacquire the same or a similar designated security,
* securitisations and similar transactions involving the transfer of assets in exchange for the issuance of securities that entitle the holder to proceeds generated from these assets,
* lease or hire purchase arrangements where all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of the underlying asset have been substantially transferred to the lessee, and
* factoring and similar accounts receivable purchase transactions.

In addition, Interest includes:38
* certain amounts incurred in connection with raising finance,
* the interest equivalent component on Islamic Financial Instruments,
* the finance element of finance lease payments as documented in the accounts of a Taxable Person,
* foreign exchange gains and losses accruing from Interest shall be considered Interest, and
* certain income or expenditure on capitalised interest.

Income from Immovable Property in the UAE

The Qualifying Investment Fund should also recognise the net income available for distribution from Immovable Property in the UAE, separately.39 Immovable Property means any of the following:
* any area of land over which rights or interests or services can be created,
* any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed, or
* any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.






38 Articles 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023
39 Article 2 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.



Other income

Any net income available for distribution that is not categorised as Exempt Income, Interest income or income from Immovable Property in the UAE, should be allocated to other income.

4.4.2.2. At the investor level

Any investor in a Qualifying Investment Fund that is a Taxable Person shall include in their income their proportional share of the amount reflected as net income available for distribution in the financial statements of the Qualifying Investment Fund.

To the extent the net income relates to net Exempt Income, this should also be treated as Exempt Income for the investor that is a Taxable Person.

Any proportional amount of net Interest income shall be treated as Interest income for any investor that is a Taxable Person.

Under Article 30(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, a Taxable Person's Net Interest Expenditure shall be deductible up to 30% of the Taxable Person's adjusted accounting earnings before the deduction of Interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, or AED 12 million, whichever is higher.40 Net Interest Expenditure is determined as the amount by which Interest expenditure exceeds the taxable Interest income.41

If the net income of a Qualifying Investment Fund includes net Interest income, a proportional part of the income included shall be treated as Interest income for the Taxable Person who is an investor for the purposes of Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law. Interest income would reduce the Net Interest Expenditure of the investor.

The net income from Immovable Property in the UAE can create a nexus for an investor that is a Non-Resident juridical person, as explained above.42

All other income shall be included in the Taxable Income of the investor where relevant.

Furthermore, where an investor that is a Taxable Person realises a capital gain on the disposal of their ownership interest in a Qualifying Investment Fund, the resulting gain

40 Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law read with Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
41 Article 30(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
42 Article 2 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.


could be Exempt Income, if the ownership interest in the Qualifying Investment Fund qualifies as a Participating Interest.43 In this respect, a Participation in a Qualifying Investment Fund is considered to meet the subject to Corporate Tax condition under Article 23(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Example 2: Taxation of investor income

A Qualifying Investment Fund has 15 investors and has allocated the net income












available for distribution in the relevant financial year as follows: The investors in the Qualifying Investment Fund are as follows:
* Thirteen investors are natural persons, each holding their investment as a Personal Investment and who collectively hold a 20% ownership interest in the fund.
* One investor is a UAE incorporated juridical person who is a Resident Person (Investor 1) and holds a 40% ownership interest in the fund.
* One investor is a foreign juridical person (Investor 2) who holds a 40% ownership interest in the fund and who does not have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE or State Sourced Income as a result of any of their other activities.

The net income of the natural persons will not be treated as Taxable Income as they hold their stake as a Personal Investment.

Investor 1 and Investor 2 will include the relevant portion of net income available for distribution of the fund in their income. For the relevant financial year, the net income of the Qualifying Investment Fund to be included by investors will be calculated as follows:




43 Articles 23(1), 23(4) and 23(5)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.





Particulars


Net Exempt Income


Net	Interest income
Net	income from Immovable Property	in the UAE


All other net income

		
(Amounts in AED million)
Net	income	per income category

22.5

5

15

7.5
Inclusion of net income by Investor 1 (40%) in its income


9


2


6


3
Inclusion of net income by Investor 2 (40%) in its income


n/a


n/a


6


n/a

For Investor 1, the Exempt Income of AED 9 million will not be treated as Taxable Income, as it remains Exempt Income. The remaining net income of AED 11 million (i.e. net Interest income, net income from Immovable Property, and other net income) will be treated as Taxable Income.

For Investor 2, as a foreign juridical person, it will be regarded as having a nexus only to the extent that it receives income from Immovable Property in the UAE.44 In this example, net Exempt Income, net Interest income and all other net income, is not included in Investor 2's income, as it is not attributable to its nexus in the UAE. Therefore, only the income from Immovable Property in the UAE of AED 6 million will be treated as Taxable Income for Investor 2.

The requirement to allocate net income applies equally to Qualifying Investment Funds that are REITs.









44 Article 2 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.



Example 3: Taxation of investor income in case of a REIT

A Qualifying Investment Fund which is a REIT has 15 investors and derives the













following net income available for distribution in a financial year: The investors in the REIT are as follows:
* Thirteen investors are natural persons, each holding their investment as a Personal Investment and who collectively hold a 20% ownership interest in the fund.
* One investor is a UAE incorporated juridical person who is a Resident Person (Investor 1) and holds a 40% ownership interest in the fund.
* One investor is a foreign juridical person (Investor 2) who holds a 40% ownership interest in the fund and who does not have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE or State Sourced Income as a result of any of their other activities.

The net income of the natural persons will not be treated as Taxable Income as they hold their stake as a Personal Investment.

Investor 1 and Investor 2 will include the relevant portion of net income available for distribution of the fund in their income. For the relevant financial year, the net income of the REIT to be included by investors will be calculated as follows:





Particulars


Net	Exempt Income


Net	Interest income
Net	income from Immovable Property	in the UAE


All net other income

		
(Amounts in AED million)
Net	income	per income category

0

2.5

47.5

0
Inclusion of net income by Investor 1 (40%) in its income


0


1


19


0
Inclusion of net income by Investor 2 (40%) in its income


n/a


n/a


19


n/a















4.4.3. Time apportionment of income

The requirement to include the net income and expenditure of a Qualifying Investment Fund only applies to the extent the net income and expenditure has been reflected as net income available for distribution in the financial statements of the Qualifying Investment Fund.46 Therefore, the net income and expenditure for a particular financial year of the Qualifying Investment Fund will be the amount reflected in the financial statements of the Qualifying Investment Fund as at its year end.



45 Article 2 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
46 Article 4(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


If the financial year of the Qualifying Investment Fund differs from the Tax Period of an investor that is a Taxable Person, the investor must include the net income available for distribution in the Tax Period in which the year end of the Qualifying Investment Fund occurs.

If a Taxable Person held a stake for only part of the financial year of the Qualifying Investment Fund, the net income is also required to be apportioned by the Qualifying Investment Fund. As a result, it is possible that a Taxable Person is required to include the net income from the Qualifying Investment Fund that was earned in a Tax Period when it no longer holds the investment in the Qualifying Investment Fund.

Example 4: Inclusion of net income for investor in a Tax Period that includes the closing date of the financial year of the Qualifying Investment Fund

X LLP is a Qualifying Investment Fund. X LLP uses the Gregorian calendar year (31 December) as its financial year end.

A LLC is a Resident Person that acquires a 10% ownership interest in X LLP on 26 May 2025 for AED 100 million. A LLC sells its ownership interest on 14 March 2027 for AED 120 million. A LLC's Financial Year end is 31 March.

As a result, A LLC shall include the relevant net income available for distribution in its income, for the Tax Periods ending on 31 March 2026 and 31 March 2027 respectively.

In the Tax Period ending 31 March 2028, the requirement to include net income applies despite A LLC having sold its stake before the Tax Period started. As a result, A LLC shall include the relevant net income available for distribution in its Taxable Income for the Tax Period ending on 31 March 2028.

If A LLC realised a capital gain on the sale of the ownership interest in X LLP and if the ownership interest in X LLP qualified as a Participating Interest, the capital gain realised on the sale would be Exempt Income and, therefore, not included in the Taxable Income of A LLC (in this regard, refer to Section 4.4.4 below).

4.4.4. Treatment of distributions

Any distributions made by a Qualifying Investment Fund should not be included in the income of an investor who is a Taxable Person, to the extent that net income available for distribution was already previously included in the income of that investor (as outlined in the previous section).47

47 Article 4(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


Whether net income available for distribution was previously included by the investor in its income should be determined on a combined basis for all Tax Periods up to and including the Tax Period in which the distribution was made.

Example 5: Inclusion of distributions in income

X LLP is a Qualifying Investment Fund. A LLC is a Resident Person that acquires a 10% ownership interest in X LLP. X LLP and A LLC use the Gregorian calendar year (31 December) as their financial year end.

All of the income of X LLP is other net income. Over a three-year period, X LLP realises the following net income available for distribution:




Particulars
Financial	year
ending	31
December 2024
Financial	year
ending	31
December 2025
Financial	year
ending	31
December 2026

	
(Amounts in AED million)
Total	net	income available			for
distribution

60

10

100
Net income included by A LLC (10% of total net income)

6

1

10
Total	distributions made by X LLP

-

50

80
Distributions made by X LLP to A LLC (10% of
total	distributions made)


-


5


8

A LLC should not include the distributions in its income to the extent that it has previously included net income available for distribution.

In the financial year ending 31 December 2025, A LLC receives a distribution of AED 5 million, which is less than the AED 7 million it has included in its income (i.e. AED 6 million in the 2024 Tax Period and AED 1 million in the 2025 Tax Period). Therefore, A LLC shall not include the distribution by X LLP in its income.




The net income previously included by an investor includes net Exempt Income, net Interest income, net income from Immovable Property in the UAE and other net income. In other words, if a Qualifying Investment Fund realises Exempt Income, investors that are Taxable Persons would also take into account such income for the purpose of Article 4(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.

If a distribution by a Qualifying Investment Fund to a particular investor exceeds the amount of net income that has already been taken into account as part of the investor's income, only the excess amount of the distribution should be treated as income for the investor.

A distribution by a Qualifying Investment Fund incorporated in the UAE would not qualify as Exempt Income for the investor, as the Qualifying Investment Fund is not a Resident Person (because it is an Exempt Person).48 Therefore, a distribution that exceeds the net income included for a Taxable Person would be Taxable Income.

By contrast, if an investor that is a Taxable Person realises a capital gain on the disposal of their ownership interest in a Qualifying Investment Fund, the resulting gain could be Exempt Income, if the ownership interest in the Qualifying Investment Fund qualifies as a Participating Interest.49

4.4.5. Application of other Corporate Tax provisions

As a Qualifying Investment Fund is not a Taxable Person and is not subject to Corporate Tax, the net income of a Qualifying Investment Fund that is available for distribution should not be adjusted under the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that apply only to Taxable Persons, for instance Article 20(2), Article 20(3), Article 20(5), Article 24, Article 26, Article 27, Article 28, Article 29, Article 30, Article 31, Article 32, Article 33 or Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.





48 Articles 22(1), 22(2) and 23(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
49 Articles 23(1), 23(4) and 23(5)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


4.4.6. Treatment of Exempt Persons held by Qualifying Investment Funds

A juridical person incorporated in the UAE that is wholly owned by a Qualifying Investment Fund can also apply to be an Exempt Person, if the conditions in Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law are met (as explained in Section 5.10). This treatment is not automatic and requires an application, following the same procedures and time limits as a Qualifying Investment Fund.

When determining the net income of a Qualifying Investment Fund that is available for distribution and to be included in the income of the investors, the net income of the Qualifying Investment Fund should include the net income of any Exempt Persons who are wholly owned by that Qualifying Investment Fund and derive their Exempt Person status from Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law.

If the Qualifying Investment Fund prepares consolidated financial statements that include the results of such Exempt Persons and do not include the results of any other Persons, the determination of the net income included by investors can be based on such consolidated financial statements.

If no such consolidated financial statements are available, in determining the net income available for distribution to investors, the net income of the Qualifying Investment Fund and the net income of any subsidiaries that are treated as Exempt Persons under Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law shall be aggregated in a manner similar to consolidation, eliminating:
* any Dividends paid by the Exempt Persons, and
* any other transactions between the Exempt Persons and the Qualifying Investment Fund.

4.4.7. Impact of ceasing to be part of a Qualifying Group

If the Taxable Persons involved in a transfer under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law cease to be members of the same Qualifying Group within two years, the transfer of the asset shall be treated as having taken place at Market Value at the date of the transfer for the purposes of determining the Taxable Income of both Taxable Persons for the relevant Tax Period.50 If an entity obtains Qualifying Investment Fund status, it will become an Exempt Person and will cease to form part of any Qualifying Group. Therefore, obtaining Qualifying Investment Fund status could trigger a clawback, if this occurs within two years of a transfer of assets or liabilities within a Qualifying Group.51




50 Articles 26(4) and (5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
51 Article 26(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.



Example 6: Corporate Tax arising from ceasing to be part of Qualifying Group

A LLP and B LLC are part of a Qualifying Group and resident in the UAE. A LLP holds a 90% direct ownership interest in B LLC. Their Tax Periods end on 31 December.

On 1 March 2025, A LLP transfers certain assets to B LLC on which the no gain or loss treatment is applied in accordance with Article 26(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. The book value of the assets at the time of transfer is AED 30 million, but their Market Value is AED 35 million.

On 1 January 2026, A LLP becomes a Qualifying Investment Fund and, therefore, an Exempt Person. As a result, A LLP will cease to be a member of the Qualifying Group with B LLC which is within two years of transferring the assets to B LLC.

As A LLP and B LLC cease to be members of the same Qualifying Group within two years of the transfer within the Qualifying Group, the transfer of the asset shall be treated as having taken place at Market Value at the date of the transfer for the purposes of determining the Taxable Income of both Taxable Persons for the current Tax Period. The resulting gain should, in principle, be included in the Taxable Income of the transferor, but as the transferor ceases to be a Taxable Person as a result of the Qualifying Investment Fund status, the gain would be included in the Taxable Income of the transferee instead.52 As a result, a gain of AED 5 million will be included in the Taxable Income of B LLC in the Tax Period ending 31 December 2026.

4.4.8. Impact of leaving a Tax Group or causing a Tax Group to cease to exist

A Qualifying Investment Fund is an Exempt Person and, therefore, cannot be part of a Tax Group under Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.53 As a result, if an investment fund that is part of a Tax Group obtains Qualifying Investment Fund status, it will automatically leave the Tax Group. The investment fund entity will be treated as having left the Tax Group from the beginning of the Tax Period in which it ceases to meet the conditions to form part of the Tax Group.54





52 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
53 Article 40(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.
54 Articles 40(10)(b), 40(11)(b) and 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


If the Qualifying Investment Fund was the Parent Company of the Tax Group, the Tax Group would also cease to exist as per the start of that Tax Period, unless the Qualifying Investment Fund is replaced by another Parent Company.55

If any asset or liability was transferred to or from an investment fund within the Tax Group in the two-year period before it became a Qualifying Investment Fund (and, therefore, applied to be an Exempt Person), the associated gain or loss on the transfer may need to be taken into account by the relevant transferor or transferee.56

4.4.9. Impact on relief for Tax Losses

If an investment fund has existing Tax Losses or unutilised Net Interest Expenditure prior to obtaining Qualifying Investment Fund status, those Tax Losses and unutilised Net Interest Expenditure cannot be utilised while it has Qualifying Investment Fund status.57

However, if it loses the Exempt Person status in a later Tax Period, it can utilise the Tax Losses or unutilised Net Interest Expenditure from that Tax Period onwards, provided that the conditions for utilisation are met.58 For the purposes of carrying forward those Tax Losses, obtaining Qualifying Investment Fund status is not considered a change of ownership under Article 39 of the Corporate Tax Law if the ownership of the investors in the investment fund does not change.

A Taxable Person cannot claim Tax Loss relief for losses incurred before a Person becomes a Taxable Person under the Corporate Tax Law, nor for losses incurred from an asset or activity the income of which is exempt, or otherwise not taken into account, under the Corporate Tax Law.59 This means that any losses which arose in the hands of an investment fund at the time it was a Qualifying Investment Fund are not Tax Losses and cannot be carried forward to any subsequent Tax Periods or utilised by a fund if it ceases to be a Qualifying Investment Fund.












55 Article 40(12) of the Corporate Tax Law.
56 Article 42(9) of the Corporate Tax Law.
57 Articles 4, 28(2)(b) and 37(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
58 Articles 30(1) and 37(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
59 Article 37(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5. Conditions for being a Qualifying Investment Fund

5.1. Overview

An investment fund may apply to the FTA to be exempt from Corporate Tax as a Qualifying Investment Fund provided the conditions prescribed in Article 10(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023 are met. The conditions set out in Article 10(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are as follows:60
a) the investment fund or the investment fund's manager is subject to the regulatory oversight of a competent authority in the UAE, or a foreign competent authority recognised for the purposes of Article 10 of the Corporate Tax Law (the "regulatory oversight condition"),
b) interests in the investment fund are traded on a Recognised Stock Exchange or are marketed and made available sufficiently widely to investors (the "fund ownership condition"), and
c) the main or principal purpose of the investment fund is not to avoid Corporate Tax (the "main purpose condition").

The following additional conditions for investment funds (other than Real Estate Investment Trusts "REITs") are set out in Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023, as follows:61
* the main Business or Business Activities conducted by the investment fund are Investment Business activities, and any other Business or Business Activities conducted by the investment fund are ancillary or incidental (the "Investment Business condition"),
* a single investor and its Related Parties do not own:
1. more than 30% of the ownership interests in the investment fund, where the investment fund has less than ten investors; or
2. more than 50% of the ownership interests in the investment fund, where the investment fund has ten or more investors (the "diversity of ownership condition"),
* the investment fund is managed or advised by an Investment Manager that has a minimum of three investment professionals (the "Investment Manager condition"), and
* the investors shall not have control over the day-to-day management of the investment fund (the "independence condition").

The above additional conditions do not apply to REITs. Instead, Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023 has set out the following additional conditions for REITs.62 These additional

60 Article 10(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
61 Article 2 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
62 Article 3 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


conditions are in addition to the conditions under Article 10(1) of the Corporate Tax Law:
* The value of real estate assets, excluding land, under the management or ownership of the REIT exceeds AED 100 million (the "REIT minimum real estate asset value condition").
* At least 20% of the REIT share capital is floated on a Recognised Stock Exchange, or it is directly wholly owned by two or more institutional investors specified in Article 5 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023, provided that at least two of those institutional investors are not Related Parties (the "REIT ownership condition").
* The REIT has an average Real Estate Asset Percentage of at least 70% during the relevant Gregorian calendar year or the relevant 12-month period for which the financial statements are prepared (the "REIT real estate percentage condition").

A failure to meet the conditions would not immediately cause a Qualifying Investment Fund to lose its status, if the conditions of Article 4(6) of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023 are met (as explained in Section 5.1.2). 63 However, in other cases, each of the conditions outlined above must be met continuously during the relevant Tax Period by the Qualifying Investment Fund or the REIT, as the case may be, in order to be treated as an Exempt Person during such Tax Period.

Each of these conditions is discussed in detail in this section. In addition, this section will discuss the conditions for entities wholly owned and controlled by a Qualifying Investment Fund to be treated as an Exempt Person.64

5.1.1. Persons eligible for Qualifying Investment Fund status

A Qualifying Investment Fund is an Exempt Person, which means it is a Person exempt from Corporate Tax.65 Natural persons and juridical persons are regarded as Persons.66 A natural person cannot be a Qualifying Investment Fund. Thus, subject to the exception referred to below, only a juridical person can be a Qualifying Investment Fund.

If an election has been made to treat an Unincorporated Partnership as a Taxable Person in its own right (i.e. as fiscally opaque),67 it can make an application to be a Qualifying Investment Fund, provided the relevant conditions are met.

63 Article 4(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.
64 Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law.
65 Article 4(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
66 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
67 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 6 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.



If a foreign incorporated investment fund entity is subject to Corporate Tax as either a Resident Person (for example, due to effective management and control in the UAE) or as a Non-Resident Person (for example, due to a Permanent Establishment or other nexus in the UAE), it can apply to be exempt from Corporate Tax as a Qualifying Investment Fund, if it meets the relevant conditions.

A Free Zone Person may apply to the FTA to be exempt from Corporate Tax as a Qualifying Investment Fund if the relevant conditions are met.

5.1.2. Impact of not meeting the conditions in later Tax Periods

Once any of the conditions for a Qualifying Investment Fund are no longer met at any particular time during a Tax Period, the Qualifying Investment Fund will cease to be an Exempt Person from the start of the Tax Period during which it ceased to meet the relevant condition.68

However, a Qualifying Investment Fund would not lose its status from the start of the Tax Period if:
1. it fails to meet the conditions as a result of its liquidation or termination, or
2. the failure to meet the conditions is of a temporary nature and will be promptly rectified, and appropriate procedures are in place to monitor compliance with the relevant conditions.69

In respect of (1), the Qualifying Investment Fund must notify the FTA within 20 business days from the date of the beginning of the liquidation or termination procedures.70 In such a case, the Qualifying Investment Fund shall cease to be an Exempt Person on the day following the date of the completion of the liquidation or termination procedure.71

In respect of (2), the Qualifying Investment Fund shall continue to be an Exempt Person if all of the following conditions are met:72
a. The failure to meet the conditions is due to a situation or an event beyond the Qualifying Investment Fund's control which it could not reasonably have predicted or prevented.
b. The Qualifying Investment Fund has made an application to the FTA to continue to be treated as an Exempt Person within 20 business days from the date it fails to meet the conditions of a Qualifying Investment Fund. The FTA shall review the

68 Article 4(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
69 Article 4(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.
70 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
71 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.


application and notify its decision within 20 business days of the submission of the application or, if the FTA has notified the Qualifying Investment Fund, such other time period required to review the application.
c. It is reasonably expected to rectify the failure to meet the conditions within 20 business days from the submission of such application. This period may be extended upon request (and subject to approval by the FTA) for another 20 business days if the failure to rectify is beyond the Qualifying Investment Fund's reasonable control.73
d. Upon request by the FTA, the Qualifying Investment Fund provides evidence to support putting in place the appropriate procedures to monitor the compliance with the relevant conditions of the Corporate Tax Law, within 20 business days from the date of the request by the FTA, or any other period as may be determined by the FTA.

If the failure to meet the conditions is not of a temporary nature, an investment fund entity will cease to be a Qualifying Investment Fund. If so, this will mean:
* It will no longer be an Exempt Person and, as a result, will be subject to Corporate Tax as a Taxable Person from the start of the Tax Period in which the conditions were not met.74 If the Taxable Person does not realise the conditions are not met, it is possible it mistakenly does not file Tax Returns for one or more Tax Periods. In such a case, it would be liable for penalties for its failure to file a Tax Return.
* Any entities wholly owned and controlled by such an investment fund will no longer be an Exempt Person under Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law. Such entities will cease to be an Exempt Person for any of their Tax Periods, where they are no longer continuously wholly owned and controlled by a Qualifying Investment Fund.
* Investors in such an investment fund that are Taxable Persons should no longer include the relevant net income in their income as of that date.75
* Any feeder funds investing in such an investment fund should no longer count a proportional part of the Revenue of the investment fund for the purpose of the Investment Business condition (as explained in Section 5.5)
* If such an investment fund invests in a second investment fund, the second investment fund should no longer look through the first investment fund for the purpose of the diversity of ownership condition (as explained in Section 5.6).

5.2. Regulatory oversight condition

Regulatory oversight generally provides a legal framework for the promotion and distribution of investment opportunities to UAE investors and for ensuring appropriate



73 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
74 Article 4(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
75 Article 4(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


risk management, investor rights protection and communication to investors about investment risks.

The regulatory oversight condition requires that the investment fund or the investment fund's manager must be subject to the regulatory oversight of a competent authority in the UAE, or a recognised foreign competent authority.76

There are three different competent authorities responsible for the authorisation and supervision of UAE financial institutions which includes investment funds and investment managers. These are:
* the Securities and Commodities Authority ("SCA") which regulates markets, listed companies and securities brokers within the UAE (other than those resident in DIFC and ADGM),
* the Dubai Financial Services Authority ("DFSA"), which is the regulator of the Dubai International Financial Centre ("DIFC"), and
* the Financial Services Regulatory Authority ("FSRA"), which is the regulator of the Abu Dhabi Global Market ("ADGM").

Whilst, in practice, it may be difficult for a non-resident fund manager of a UAE investment fund to carry on all its activities without requiring a Licence or registration in the UAE, the Qualifying Investment Fund status could also be available if the fund manager of a UAE managed fund is subject to regulatory oversight by a foreign authority that is recognised as competent to regulate fund management activities. The inclusion of foreign competent authorities is also relevant to cover non-UAE incorporated investment funds that are not Resident Persons, but are Taxable Persons due to having a Permanent Establishment in the UAE or a nexus in the UAE as specified in Cabinet decision No. 56 of 2023 and wish to apply for the Qualifying Investment Fund exemption.

A foreign authority will generally be considered a "foreign competent authority" if it subjects an investment fund or its manager to regulatory oversight with the aim of protecting matters such as financial stability, interests of investors in collective investment schemes and preventing disproportionate financial risks and fraudulent activities by investment managers.










76 Article 10(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.3. Fund ownership condition

To be a Qualifying Investment Fund, interests in the investment fund need to be either:77
1. traded on a Recognised Stock Exchange, or
2. marketed and made available sufficiently widely to investors.

A Recognised Stock Exchange includes a stock exchange established in the UAE that is licensed and regulated by the relevant competent authority (such as the Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange ("ADX"), Dubai Financial Market ("DFM"), and Nasdaq Dubai), or a foreign stock exchange that is licensed and regulated by the relevant foreign competent authority and has an equal standing to that of a UAE stock exchange. Whether a stock exchange established outside the UAE has equal standing is dependent on whether that stock exchange that is recognised as such for the purpose of its local legislation.

The fund ownership condition can also be met if a fund is considered marketed and made available sufficiently widely to investors. This means that the fund needs to demonstrate it has attempted to achieve a diversity of ownership. However, if a fund (other than a REIT) has achieved a diversity of ownership in line with the diversity of ownership condition described in Section 5.6 below, it would be reasonable to conclude that the fund has been marketed and made available sufficiently widely and, as a result, the fund ownership condition would be met.

5.4. Main purpose condition

Qualifying Investment Fund status is not available for funds when the main or principal purpose of the fund is to avoid UAE Corporate Tax. The main or principal purpose condition refers specifically to UAE Corporate Tax and does not extend to foreign taxes.

The main purpose condition is intended to prevent the avoidance of Corporate Tax, but is not intended to prevent the application of the Qualifying Investment Fund status for investment fund entities that were established with the main purpose of pooling and investing of funds received from investors on a collective basis. Whether a fund has been set up with the main purpose of avoiding Corporate Tax will be determined on a case by case basis. The mere fact that a fund has been set up with the expectation that it will be an Exempt Person does not mean avoidance of Corporate Tax is its main purpose. However, where a Corporate Tax benefit is the only commercial benefit of a structure, this could be an indication that the main purpose condition is not met.


77 Article 10(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.5. Investment Business condition

5.5.1. Meaning of Investment Business

The Investment Business condition requires that the main Business or Business Activities conducted by the investment fund are Investment Business activities, and any other Business or Business Activities conducted by the investment fund are ancillary or incidental.78 Investment Business is defined as "the issuing of investment interests to raise funds or pool investor funds or establish a joint investment fund with the aim of enabling the holder of such an investment interest to benefit from the profits or gains resulting from the entity's acquisition, holding, management or disposal of investments, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE."79 This condition does not apply to REITs.

If not all activities of an entity fall within the scope of Investment Business, the size of the Revenue from Investment Business and such other activities should be considered to determine whether the other activities can be considered ancillary or incidental. Other activities are considered as ancillary or incidental if the combined Revenue of such other Business or Business Activities does not exceed 5% of the total Revenue of the investment fund in the same financial year.80

5.5.2. Distinction between Business of the Investment Manager and the Investment Business

Investment Business requires that an entity issues investment interests and invests funds for the benefit of its investors, whereas the Business of an Investment Manager usually consists of managing funds of others (including but not limited to investment funds). Income generated from Business Activities that are carried out by the Investment Manager are subject to Corporate Tax as the Investment Manager's Taxable Income and do not taint the Investment Business condition for the investment fund.81

The Investment Manager may represent the investment fund or exercise an authority to conduct Business or Business Activity on behalf of an investment fund entity from time to time (similar to an agent), but it would do so in its capacity as Investment Manager and the income (typically fees) it earns from those Business Activities would not be attributed to the Qualifying Investment Fund.


78 Article 2(1)(a) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
79 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
80 Article 2(2)(c) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
81 Article 2(2)(a) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


Normally, the result of this is that any fee income earned by the Investment Manager for managing a Qualifying Investment Fund is subject to Corporate Tax. If so, any Business Activities performed by the Investment Manager will be regarded as Investment Business, even if they would be attributed to the Qualifying Investment Fund. 82 This treatment also applies if the Investment Manager is not subject to Corporate Tax on the fee income, but the Investment Manager is acting for the Qualifying Investment Fund in an independent capacity, analogous to the Investment Manager Exemption.83 As the Investment Business condition is assessed based on Revenue, this would only be relevant to the extent the activities of the Investment Manager result in Revenue for the Qualifying Investment Fund.

5.5.3. Examples of other activities treated as Investment Business

The Investment Business condition is assessed by reference to the Revenue of the Qualifying Investment Fund.84 Revenue of the Qualifying Investment Fund is regarded as Revenue from an Investment Business activity if it consists of profits or gains resulting from the acquisition, holding, management or disposal of investments.85 For instance, if a Qualifying Investment Fund has invested in shares and loans receivable, Dividends, Interest and disposal gains or losses on such shares and loans receivable count as an Investment Business activity, as well as any profits and gains or losses relating to those investments. For example, arrangement fees paid for providing financing, hedging transactions, options transactions, fees earned for early repayment of loans, payments in lieu of Dividend or Interest payments (including compensation for the loss of Dividends and Interest) and payments received from the buyback of shares should all be regarded as income from the Investment Business.

Any form of income arising from investments will count as Investment Business. For instance, an investment in commercial real estate can generate Revenue in the form of rental income, but also in the form of fees paid for parking spaces that are part of the real estate. In such case, both forms of Revenue count as Revenue from Investment Business.

There is no requirement to hold investments for a minimum period to be considered Investment Business. For example, if an investment fund engages in high-frequency trading as part of its investment strategy, the Revenue from such activity could be Revenue from Investment Business.

Any other Revenue that has a close relationship or nexus to the investments should generally be regarded to be Revenue from Investment Business. For instance, it can

82 Article 2(2)(b)(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023. 83 Article 2(2)(b)(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023. 84 Article 2(2)(c) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
85 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


apply if a Qualifying Investment Fund charges fees paid for external advice to assess investment or divestment opportunities (including due diligence), financial performance or strategic advice on the operations of subsidiaries invested in. If a Qualifying Investment Fund incurs such costs and charges to these entities it has invested in, the Revenue earned from charging such costs counts as Revenue from its Investment Business. Similarly, any Revenue earned by a Qualifying Investment Fund from management services, oversight services, administrative support, deal fees or any similar fees in relation to investment opportunities can be considered Revenue from Investment Business.

If an investment fund passively holds cash in its bank account, this should also be regarded as consistent with an Investment Business, provided this cash is held as a result of Investment Business activities (for example, proceeds from investments or funds received from investors or other investment related financing) or for the purpose of supporting its Investment Business (for example, funds obtained to cover running costs of the Investment Business or to hold as available for suitable investment opportunities).

However, not all activities performed by an investment fund will qualify as Investment Business. For instance, if an investment fund acquires the assets and liabilities of an active operational business (such as a retail store, a manufacturing Business, a consulting Business, etc.), the recurring Revenue from such a Business would not count as Revenue from an Investment Business, even if it intends to ultimately sell the assets and liabilities. However, if the investment fund acquires shares in a company with an operational Business for the purposes of investment, this could be considered part of an Investment Business.

If an investment fund has no Revenue in a given Tax Period, it can meet the Investment Business condition, if by reference to other factors (such as expenditure and time spent by management), its main Business, or Business Activities are Investment Business activities and any other Business or Business Activities are ancillary or incidental.86



86 Article 2(1)(a) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


In 2024, X LLP makes several investments and sells one existing investment with a gain of AED 100 million. In 2025, X LLP makes several investments but does not sell any of its existing investments.

As a result, its Revenue is as follows:

Particulars
2024
2025

(Amounts in AED million)
Income from sale of shares
100
0
Income from other activities
0
0
Total Revenue
100
0
Percentage of Revenue related to Investment
Business
100%
0%

In 2024, the Investment Business condition is met, as all Revenue relates to Investment Business activities.

In 2025, no Revenue was earned. However, the Investment Business condition is still met if, based on the overall activities of X LLP (such as assets held, cost incurred or time spent by senior management) and the history (such as Revenue in previous years), its main Business or Business Activities are Investment Business activities, and any other Business or Business Activities are ancillary or incidental.

The Revenue of an investment fund consists of its own Revenue and a proportional stake of the Revenue of any tax transparent entity in which the investment fund holds an ownership interest. In other words, if an investment fund holds a 10% ownership interest in an Unincorporated Partnership that is not treated as a Taxable Person, 10% of the Revenue of the Unincorporated Partnership is treated as Revenue of the investment fund. If the Revenue included in this way is not in relation to an Investment Business and such Revenue is more than 5% of the investment fund's Revenue, the Investment Business condition would not be met.

5.5.4. Ancillary or incidental Business Activities

If Revenue from other Business or Business Activities does not exceed 5% of the total Revenue of the investment fund in the same financial year, such activities should be regarded as ancillary or incidental and, therefore, the Investment Business condition can still be met.87 However, if the Revenue from such other activities is more than 5%, the Investment Business condition is not met.



87 Article 2(2)(c) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


The Revenue should be regarded at the level of the investment fund itself on a standalone basis. The Revenue of its subsidiaries should not be taken into account, even if such subsidiaries are included in consolidated accounts with the investment fund. For instance, if a private equity fund acquires a 100% stake in an operational manufacturing company, this would be an investment consistent with the private equity fund's Investment Business. However, the operational manufacturing company does not have an Investment Business. Therefore, including the Revenue from the operational manufacturing company would be inconsistent with the aim of the Investment Business test. At the level of the fund, the Revenue from this investment might consist of Dividends, capital gains and Interest on shareholder loans, which would all be consistent with the Investment Business activities.

5.5.5. Application to feeder funds

A feeder fund (investment vehicle) pools capital commitments of investors and invests or "feeds" such capital into a main fund, often called a master fund, which directs and oversees all investments held in the investment fund. A feeder fund entity can become a Qualifying Investment Fund if the conditions are met, including the Investment Business condition. Whether the Investment Business condition is met is assessed at the level of the feeder fund entity itself.


















Any investment fund entity that is a Taxable Person can apply to become a Qualifying Investment Fund, if it meets the relevant conditions (including the Investment Business condition).

All of A LLP's Revenue is derived from shares listed on a stock exchange. Therefore, the Investment Business condition is met for A LLP.

If A LLP becomes a Qualifying Investment Fund, its Revenue would be treated as income of B LLC, C LLP and D LLP for the purposes of the Investment Business condition. As C LLP and D LLP do not have other Revenue, all of their Revenue would be derived from Investment Business activity in such case. As a result, the Investment Business condition would be met for C LLP and D LLP.

If A LLP does not become a Qualifying Investment Fund, B LLC, C LLP and D LLP would instead recognise any distributions made by A LLP as Revenue. As such distributions would be Revenue derived from their investment in A LLP, the Investment Business condition would also be met for C LLP and D LLP in this case.

B LLC has an investment manager Business, which is not an Investment Business. B LLC would only meet the Investment Business condition if its Revenue from activities other than an Investment Business is less than 5%. If the fees from its investment manager Business exceed 5% of its total Revenue, the Investment Business condition would not be met.


5.6. Diversity of ownership condition

5.6.1. Overview

The diversity of ownership condition requires that no single investor (together with its Related Parties) owns:
1. 30% or more of the ownership interests, if there are 10 or fewer investors in the investment fund, or
2. 50% or more of the ownership interests, if there are more than 10 investors in the investment fund.

This condition does not apply to REITs.88

As mentioned earlier, if the diversity of ownership condition is met, the investment fund should also typically be regarded to have been marketed and made available sufficiently widely and, as a result, it would also meet the fund ownership condition.

However, it is possible for an investment fund entity to meet the fund ownership condition if it is listed on a Recognised Stock Exchange. If so, an investment fund entity (other than a REIT) would still be required to meet the diversity of ownership condition. An investment fund listed on a Recognised Stock Exchange could demonstrate that the diversity of ownership condition is met through reference to public disclosures made by investors that hold significant stakes or through its own registries.

5.6.2. Application of condition on indirect ownership

The number of investors is determined by reference to an investment fund's direct investors after looking through any investor that is either:
1. a Qualifying Investment Fund, or
2. tax transparent for Corporate Tax purposes (for example, an Unincorporated Partnership or a Foreign Partnership).

If any of the investors are Related Parties, these are counted as a single investor.

Whether there is an investor holding more than 30% or more than 50% is determined by looking both at:
1. whether any investor holds such an ownership interest directly, and
2. whether any investor indirectly holds ownership interests, after proportionally aggregating the ownership interests which an investor holds directly or through Related Parties. The requirement to aggregate ownership interests of Related


88 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


Parties applies proportionally to the extent of common ownership and does not take into account common voting rights or common control, as illustrated in the example below.

Example 9: Ownership conditions through Related Parties

A LLC holds a 15% ownership interest in X LLP. B LLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of A LLC and holds a 5% ownership interest in X LLP. A LLC has Control of C LLC and also holds a 25% ownership interest in C LLC. C LLC holds a 20% ownership interest in X LLP. The remaining 60% of ownership interests in X LLP is held by 8 investors, each holding 7.5%.

None of the investors in X LLP are a Qualifying Investment Fund or tax transparent for Corporate Tax purposes. Other than the Related Party relationships between A LLC, B LLC and C LLC, none of the investors are Related Parties.









X LLP has 11 direct investors. A LLC, B LLC and C LLC are Related Parties, as A LLC owns a 50% or greater ownership interest in B LLC and A LLC Controls C LLC.89 Therefore, A LLC, B LLC and C LLC are counted as a single investor for determining whether X LLP has more than 10 investors. Based on this, X LLP would have 9 investors. This means the diversity of ownership condition is met if no single investor holds an ownership interest of 30% or more.

None of the direct investors holds an ownership interest of 30% or more.

A LLC's proportional aggregate ownership interest in X LLP is 15% (held directly) + 5% (held through B LLC) + 5% (25% * 20%, proportional stake held through C LLC)
= 25%. Therefore, A LLC does not indirectly hold an aggregated ownership interest of 30% or more.

Based on this, the diversity of ownership condition is met for X LLP.


89 Article 35(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.




5.6.3. Application to feeder funds

As indicated above, a feeder fund entity can become a Qualifying Investment Fund if the conditions are met, including the diversity of ownership condition.

If a feeder fund is a Qualifying Investment Fund or tax transparent for Corporate Tax purposes (for example, as an Unincorporated Partnership or a Foreign Partnership), the diversity of ownership condition at the level of the master fund is assessed by looking through the feeder fund.

However, in other cases, the feeder fund is counted as one investor for the diversity of ownership condition. If there are several feeder entities and the Investment Manager has been appointed as Investment Manager for all of them, the feeder entities may be considered Related Parties if the Investment Manager has Control over the feeder funds.90







90 Article 35(1)(c)(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


















Any investment fund entity in this structure can apply to become a Qualifying Investment Fund, if it meets the relevant conditions (including the diversity of ownership condition).

A LLP ultimately has more than 100 investors, but it only has 3 direct investors, including one investor (B LLP) that holds an ownership interest of 65%. Therefore, it would not meet the diversity of ownership condition on a standalone basis. However, it could still meet the diversity of ownership condition by taking into account the owners of B LLP, C LLP and/or D LLC, if B LLP, C LLP and/or D LLC were either Qualifying Investment Funds or tax transparent.

As B LLP, C LLP and D LLC are juridical persons, they are not regarded as tax transparent for Corporate Tax purposes. If B LLP is not a Qualifying Investment Fund, it would not be possible to look through B LLP, meaning that B LLP would count as a single investor for the diversity of ownership condition and as a result, the diversity of ownership condition would not be met, as one investor would hold 65%.

However, if B LLP is a Qualifying Investment Fund, it would be possible to look through B LLP. In this case, A LLP would have 7 investors (or more if C LLP is also a Qualifying Investment Fund) and no single investor would hold a stake of more than 30% on a standalone basis.

D LLC is 100% owned by E Co and would not meet the diversity of ownership test.

As B LLP has 5 investors and none of them hold more than 30% in B LLP, B LLP would meet the diversity of ownership condition. Therefore, it could apply to become a Qualifying Investment Fund, if the other conditions are also met.




5.6.4. Application to parallel funds

Investment funds are sometimes structured as a series of separate funds that have agreed to align their investment policies and always invest in the same investments. This can create a series of parallel funds, that usually have the same investment manager but different investors. Different parallel funds can have different features (for example, be incorporated in different countries) to better suit the specific needs of specific groups of investors.

Whether a parallel fund meets the ownership interest condition should be assessed for each parallel fund on a separate basis. This is because each parallel fund is legally a separate entity from the other funds.





5.6.5. Application during the first years of an investment fund

It is recognised that if a new investment fund is established, it may not meet the diversity of ownership condition from incorporation. This is because the investment fund may require a certain time period to demonstrate a track record, source investors and negotiate terms. In addition, regulatory and other administrative considerations could lead to a gap between launch of an investment fund and time when the required numbers of investors are onboarded. Investment funds could be set up with only a few key investors, as the Investment Managers seek to find further investors as part of subsequent closings (in this context, closings are events in which new investors are allowed to join the fund or existing investors are allowed to change their ownership interest in the fund).

The ownership interest condition is considered to be met during the first two financial years of establishment, as long as the investment fund can show that it intends to meet the condition subsequently.91 The FTA would expect to see documents outlining the investment fund's strategy, including documents submitted to the competent authorities and evidence of efforts to reach investors (for example, evidence of planning or holding road shows and correspondence with potential investors). The FTA will only approve an application for Qualifying Investment Fund status if this evidence shows that the investment fund intends to attract sufficient investors as from the beginning of its third financial year.



If an investment fund entity applies for Qualifying Investment Fund status before meeting the diversity of ownership interest condition, it should submit the evidence with its application for Qualifying Investment Fund status. If Qualifying Investment Fund status is approved and the investment fund fails to meet the diversity of ownership condition after its first two financial years, it will cease to be a Qualifying Investment Fund from the beginning of its third financial year.92

5.7. Investment Manager condition

The Investment Manager condition requires that the Investment Manager that is managing or advising the investment fund must have a minimum of three investment professionals. This condition does not apply to REITs.

An Investment Manager is defined in the Corporate Tax Law as "a Person who provides brokerage or investment management services that is subject to regulatory oversight in the UAE". The requirement that an Investment Manager is subject to regulatory oversight in the UAE should be assessed in line with the regulatory oversight condition discussed in Section 5.2.

The question as to whether the Investment Manager has at least three investment professionals does not necessarily require them to be full-time equivalent (FTE) employees. They can serve as independent contractors working in an individual capacity for the Investment Manager. The condition would still be met if the Investment Manager has no or very limited staff and all of its functions are subcontracted to one or more other companies in the Business of managing or advising investment funds on investment related matters. The condition does not require that the three investment professionals work exclusively for the investment fund that is applying for Qualifying Investment Fund status. For instance, the Investment Manager could manage several funds and the investment professionals could divide their time over the range of funds.

Investment professionals are those who carry out any type of activity that forms part of the Investment Managers' core activities. This is not restricted to the most senior decision makers. It may include staff that identify and analyse investment opportunities, or assess the performance of investments. It also includes staff that negotiate investment contracts, maintain relations with advisers, investors and companies invested in and staff that help execute investments or disposals.


As a result, investment professionals can have a wide variety of professional backgrounds. Investment Managers often designate certain staff as a "deal team", if they focus exclusively on managing the whole process relating to a certain investment. A legal specialist that assists on the contract negotiation and manages external legal advisers could also be regarded as an investment professional. Similarly, a professional who focuses on "investor relations" could also be regarded as an investment professional.

However, a person who only performs administrative tasks relating to the Investment Manager itself (such as IT, office management or financial accounting of the Investment Manager itself), which are not considered as core to the Business Activity of the Investment Managers, would not be regarded as an investment professional.

5.8. Independence condition

The independence condition requires that investors do not have control over the day- to-day management of the investment fund.93 These could include routine decisions conducted in the ordinary course of Business, day to day management and supervision and operational decisions. This condition does not apply to REITs.

Merely having a right to be consulted or to give directions does not result in an investor having day-to-day control. So, for example, the right to a vote at annual general meetings would not be considered to amount to day-to-day control.

However, if an Investment Manager holds an ownership interest in the investment fund it manages, this would not prevent the fund meeting the independence condition.

Many investment funds have advisory committees or investment committees that make key decisions in relation to the investment fund. Usually, these committees consist of key investors, independent investment subject matter experts and/or representatives of the Investment Manager. It is a question of fact whether the advisory committee or investment committee exercises day-to-day management. However, it would generally not be expected that the day-to-day management role of the investment fund would be assumed by such a committee. Even if investors are represented in such committee, they would exercise their authority as a committee of the investment fund rather than in their capacity of investor. Therefore, if an investment fund has an advisory committee or investment committee which includes key investors, this fact does not by itself lead to failure to meet the condition.






93 Article 2(1)(a) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


5.9. Additional conditions applicable to REITs

5.9.1. REIT minimum real estate asset value condition

The REIT minimum asset value condition requires that the value of real estate assets, excluding land, under the management or ownership of the REIT exceeds AED 100 million.94 The value of real estate assets should be determined based on the carrying value of real estate in the financial statements of the REIT.

As the condition refers to real estate "under the management or ownership", the condition can be met even if the REIT does not hold the legal title of the real estate, provided the real estate is managed by the REIT. It is also possible that a REIT holds and manages its real estate assets through companies it wholly owns, such as special purpose vehicles (SPVs). If these SPVs are Exempt Persons under Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law and the REIT bases the allocation of the net income available for distribution to its investors on its consolidated financial statements, any real estate assets held by such Exempt Persons are also taken into account.

However, if the REIT does not base its allocation of the net income available for distribution to its investors on its consolidated financial statements, the real estate assets held by SPVs of a REIT that are Exempt Persons under Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law can nonetheless be aggregated for the purposes of the REIT minimum real estate asset value condition.

5.9.2. REIT	ownership	condition:	Recognised	Stock	Exchange	and Institutional Investor

The REIT ownership condition requires at least one of the following to be met:95
* 20% or more of the share capital of the REIT is floated on a Recognised Stock Exchange. This only includes shares (or ownership interests) that are available for trading on the Recognised Stock Exchange. It excludes closely held and restricted shares (i.e. shares that cannot be traded on the Recognised Stock Exchange, even if the investor is willing to trade them). The term Recognised Stock Exchange is explained in Section 5.3 of the guide.
* The direct owners of the REIT consist only of two or more institutional investors specified below and at least two or more of those institutional investors are not Related Parties to each other.




94 Article 3(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
95 Article 3(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


The institutional investors qualifying for the second part of the REIT ownership condition are:96
1. The Federal Government.
2. A Local Government.
3. A Government Entity.
4. A Government Controlled Entity.
5. A foreign government, its institutions and authorities or the companies fully owned by any of them.
6. International organisations. This includes any multilateral organisations established by a combination of foreign governments or foreign governments together with the UAE.
7. A Bank.
8. An Insurance Provider.
9. A pension or social security fund. This includes various public pension and social security funds in the UAE or outside the UAE that manage publicly mandated pensions and social security benefits for certain categories of Persons.
10. An investment entity licensed by a relevant competent authority or a similar regulatory authority in or outside the UAE. This extends to any investment funds that are subject to regulatory oversight as investment funds.
11. Any other juridical person determined by the FTA. Currently none are specified.








96 Article 5 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.




5.9.3. REIT real estate percentage condition

The REIT real estate percentage condition requires that the REIT has an average Real Estate Asset Percentage of at least 70% during the relevant Gregorian calendar year, or the relevant twelve-month period for which the financial statements are prepared.98 The Real Estate Asset Percentage is defined as the portion of the Real Estate Income generating assets as a percentage of the total value of the assets of the REIT.99 Real Estate Income is defined as income derived from renting of land or real estate, excluding Real Estate Gains.100 Real Estate Gains are defined as gains derived from the sale or disposal of land or real estate.101



97 Article 35(1)(c)(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
98 Article 3(3) of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
99 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
100 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.
101 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 81 of 2023.


In these definitions, references to real estate should be interpreted as references to Immovable Property. Immovable Property is defined as any of the following:102
1. any area of land over which rights or interests or services can be created,
2. any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed, or
3. any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.

The value of Real Estate Income generating assets and total assets should be determined based on the carrying value of real estate in the financial statements of the REIT. The threshold of 70% should be computed taking the average position throughout the year, based on the average of the quarterly closing balances.

If at a particular quarter closing, the average is below 70%, the REIT real estate percentage condition will still be met, provided the average position for the financial year as a whole is still 70% or more.

It is possible that a REIT holds and manages its real estate assets through companies it wholly owns, such as SPVs. If these SPVs are Exempt Persons under Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law and the REIT bases the net income available for distribution to investors on its consolidated financial statements, any real estate assets and non- real estate assets held by such Exempt Persons are also taken into account.

However, if the REIT does not base its net income available for distribution to investors on its consolidated financial statements, the real estate assets and non-real estate assets held by the SPVs of a REIT that are Exempt Persons under Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law are nonetheless aggregated for the purposes of the REIT real estate percentage condition. In such a case, the transaction between the REIT and each SPV for example, shares in such SPVs and any other assets arising from intragroup transactions such as loans that would otherwise be eliminated upon consolidation are eliminated for the purposes of the REIT real estate percentage condition.

5.10. Conditions for Exempt Person status for entity held by a  Qualifying Investment Fund

5.10.1. Overview

If an investment fund obtains Qualifying Investment Fund status, any juridical person incorporated in the UAE wholly owned and controlled by the Qualifying Investment


102 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.


Fund can also apply for Exempt Person status, if the conditions of Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law are met. 103 This requires that at least one of the following conditions is met:
1. The entity undertakes part or whole of the activity of the Qualifying Investment Fund. As the Qualifying Investment Fund undertakes an Investment Business (with any other activities being incidental or ancillary), this condition is met if the entity performs Investment Business activities (with any other activities being incidental or ancillary), exclusively for the benefit of the Qualifying Investment Fund and as an extension of the Qualifying Investment Fund.
2. The entity is engaged exclusively in holding assets or investing funds for the benefit of the Qualifying Investment Fund. It is anticipated that wholly owned and controlled companies holding investments for the Qualifying Investment Fund would meet this condition.
3. The entity only carries out activities that are ancillary to those carried out by the Qualifying Investment Fund. This condition is met if the entity only performs activities that are necessary for the Investment Business activity of the fund, even if the activities are not Investment Business activities themselves. For instance, this could apply to an entity performing administrative tasks necessary for the operation of the Qualifying Investment Fund. In addition, it could apply to an entity engaged in obtaining financing of investments (for example, in the form of bonds or bank debt), even if that entity has not made that investment itself and the entity has no Investment Business activity on a standalone basis.

If an entity wholly owned and controlled by a Qualifying Investment Fund holds an ownership interest in an entity that is transparent for Corporate Tax purposes (for example, an Unincorporated Partnership or Foreign Partnership), its activities will be assessed by taking into account a proportional part of the activities of that tax transparent entity.

5.10.2. Juridical person incorporated in the UAE

Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law only applies to juridical persons incorporated in the UAE. Juridical persons incorporated outside the UAE would not meet the condition, even if they are considered a Resident Person as a result of being effectively managed and controlled in the UAE.104 Where a Free Zone Person is a juridical person incorporated in the UAE, it could apply for Exempt Person status if the other conditions are met.






103 Articles 4(1)(h) and 4(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
104 Article 11(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.10.3. Wholly owned and controlled by Qualifying Investment Funds

Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law only applies to juridical persons wholly owned and controlled by the Qualifying Investment Fund. This requires that the Qualifying Investment Fund legally and beneficially owns all the shares and that it holds all the voting rights related to that juridical person. The conditions of "wholly owned" and "controlled" should both be met continuously throughout the applicable Tax Period. These conditions are met if the Qualifying Investment Fund wholly owns and controls the shares directly. In case of indirect ownership and control, the condition is only met if the Qualifying Investment Fund wholly owns and controls through an uninterrupted chain of entities that have similarly applied for Exempt Person status.






6. Corporate Tax compliance requirements

6.1. Applying for Qualifying Investment Fund exemption

An investment fund entity can only apply for the exemption after it has been registered with the FTA and obtained a Tax Registration Number for Corporate Tax purposes.105 When the Qualifying Investment Fund conditions are met, an investment fund can make an application to the FTA for exemption from Corporate Tax.

This application should specify for which Tax Period the Qualifying Investment Fund intends to be an Exempt Person. Upon the review of the application, the FTA shall either accept or reject the application and specify from which Tax Period the Qualifying Investment Fund status applies. The FTA shall also specify the reason in case of a rejection.

Where an application is approved, the Qualifying Investment Fund will be an Exempt Person and will not be subject to Corporate Tax.

6.2. Earliest date an application can be effective

The Exempt Person status will apply from the start of the Tax Period specified in the application, if the application is approved by the FTA. The FTA can apply a different starting date for the Qualifying Investment Fund, as follows:106
a. If the Tax Period specified in the registration form is incorrect, the Qualifying Investment Fund status shall be effective as from the correct date.
b. If the applicant is acquired during a Tax Period by a Qualifying Investment Fund, an application under Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law will not be granted if the conditions were not met at the start of the Tax Period. The FTA shall determine another date from which the exemption is granted to ensure that the date of exemption starts after meeting all remaining conditions.
c. If the Tax Period included in the application is incorrect and the FTA receives sufficient supporting evidence that the conditions have been met in the later Tax Periods, the exemption shall be effective from the date of meeting the conditions.

The FTA requires an annual declaration confirming that the exemption conditions are maintained, no later than nine months from the end of the relevant Tax Period.107 In addition, a Qualifying Investment Fund should maintain all records that enable its exempt status to be readily ascertained by the FTA for a period of 7 years following the end of the Tax Period to which they relate.108



105 Article 51(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
106 Article 3(3) of FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023.
107 Article 2 of FTA Decision No. 11 of 2023.
108 Article 56(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


7. Investment Manager Exemption

7.1. Overview

The Investment Manager Exemption intends to prevent regulated UAE-based investment managers and brokers triggering a liability to Corporate Tax for foreign investors in common commercial fact patterns.

This should allow Investment Managers to provide discretionary investment management services and to enter into transactions on behalf of foreign customers without triggering a Permanent Establishment for the foreign investor or a foreign investment entity.

Under the Permanent Establishment definition in Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law, a Non-Resident Person could have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE if a Person has and habitually exercises an authority to conduct a Business or Business Activity in the UAE on behalf of a Non-Resident Person if any of the following conditions are met:109
1. a Person habitually concludes contracts on behalf of the Non-Resident Person, or
2. a Person habitually negotiates contracts that are concluded by the Non-Resident Person without the need for material modification by the Non-Resident Person.

However, a Permanent Establishment would not arise as a result of a Person conducting such activities on behalf of the Non-Resident Person as an independent agent acting in the ordinary course of the agent's Business.110

Without the Investment Manager Exemption, the activities of an Investment Manager may trigger a Permanent Establishment in the UAE for a Non-Resident Person. This risk may be perceived to arise where the Person invests in a fund managed by an Investment Manager based in the UAE, or engages an Investment Manager based in the UAE as broker, or where it engages an Investment Manager based in the UAE in any other capacity to manage its investments.

In all these scenarios, the Investment Manager may negotiate or conclude investment contracts on behalf of the Non-Resident Person. Even though it is expected that, as a Business that is separate from the Non-Resident Person, the Investment Manager acts in an independent capacity in the ordinary course of its Business, this condition may be perceived as imprecise and as a result, risk-adverse investors may decide not to use an Investment Manager based in the UAE.



109 Article 14(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
110 Article 14(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.


To prevent such outcomes, the UAE based Investment Manager is treated as an independent agent for the purposes of Article 14(6) of the Corporate Tax Law when acting on behalf of a foreign or Non-Resident Person provided that the conditions specified in Article 15(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are met.

The conditions for the Investment Manager Exemption are as follows:111
1. The Investment Manager is engaged in the business of providing investment management or brokerage services (the "investment manager or brokerage services condition").
2. The Investment Manager is subject to the regulatory oversight of the competent authority in the UAE (the "regulatory oversight condition").
3. The transactions are carried out in the ordinary course of the Investment Manager's Business (the "ordinary course of Business condition").
4. The Investment Manager acts in relation to the transactions in an independent capacity (the "independent capacity condition").
5. The Investment Manager transacts on an arm's length basis with the Non- Resident Person and receives due compensation for the provision of services (the "arm's length condition").
6. The Investment Manager is not the Non-Resident Person's representative in the State in relation to any other income or transaction that is subject to Corporate Tax for the same Tax Period (the "no other representation relation condition").
7. Any such other conditions as may be prescribed in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister (currently there are none).

The Investment Manager Exemption applies automatically if the conditions are met. In other words, no election or application is required for the Investment Manager Exemption.

7.2. Impact of not meeting the Investment Manager Exemption

If the conditions of the Investment Manager Exemption are not met, this does not mean that the Non-Resident Person automatically has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE. It should instead be assessed whether the activities of the Investment Manager create a Permanent Establishment for the Non-Resident based on the application of Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

For instance, if a Non-Resident Person engages an Investment Manager to write a report for general information purposes, these services are unlikely to be investment management or brokerage services. As a result, the conditions for the Investment Manager Exemption would not be met. However, the Investment Manager is not conducting a Business or Business Activity on behalf of the Non-Resident Person in such circumstances. Therefore, such an activity, by itself, would not result in the

111 Article 15(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Investment Manager creating a Permanent Establishment of the Non-Resident Person within the meaning of Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law, even though the conditions of the Investment Manager Exemption are not met.

In this case and other cases where the conditions of the Investment Manager Exemption are not met, Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law should be applied to assess whether the Non-Resident Person has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE. Further, even if a Permanent Establishment exists under Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law, a Taxable Person can assess whether any relief from Corporate Tax is available under a relevant Double Taxation Agreement.

7.3. Investment management or brokerage services condition

The Investment Manager Exemption is available if the Investment Manager is engaged in the Business of providing investment management or brokerage services. These items are described separately below.

7.3.1. Investment managers services

Investment management services generally relate to managing investments on behalf of another person (the investor or investment funds). Such services can include:
* acting as general partner, manager, investment manager or adviser for an investment fund on behalf of the fund's investors,
* managing an investment mandate or "managed account" provided by a single investor or a group of investors,
* offering investment opportunities to investors, whether directly or through an investment fund,
* representing an investment fund or any investor in contract negotiation, implementation of transactions or in signing of legal documents,
* monitoring and reporting to investors on strategy, investment performance and consistency with fund's or investor's investment objectives, strategies and policies,
* recommending and negotiating changes to investment objectives, strategies and policies of investment funds and agreed mandates,
* performing and sharing investment related research, or
* any such other services that result in management of investments on behalf of another person.

For each of these services, the Investment Manager should ensure they have the appropriate Licences in the UAE.

Investment management services should also be considered to include investment advisory services. This means the Investment Manager Exemption could be available


where the Investment Manager provides investment advice, which is decided upon by either:
* the Non-Resident Person that is seeking to rely on the Investment Manager Exemption, or
* another person.

If the other person deciding on investment advice is deciding in the UAE on behalf of the Non-Resident Person, it could be assessed whether the Investment Manager Exemption is met in relation to such other person.

An Investment Manager may subcontract part of its investment manager activities to an investment sub-advisor. This typically occurs where an Investment Manager is part of a group of entities in which Related Parties of the Investment Manager have employed staff with relevant expertise. The fact that an Investment Manager has subcontracted part of its services to another party does not change the nature of the service provided to the Non-Resident Person and, as a result, the investment management services (or brokerage services) condition can still be met.

It is unlikely that investment sub-advisory would result in the investment sub-advisor conducting Business on behalf of the investor that ultimately uses the advice. However, if an investment sub-adviser conducts Business on behalf of a Non-Resident Person, the Investment Manager Exemption could also apply to such Business, provided the other conditions are met.

7.3.2. Brokerage services

Brokerage services are intermediary services. Examples include acting as intermediary for investments, financial derivatives, funding arrangements (including raising of loans or equity), concluding commercial contracts and the purchase of real estate. In all these transactions, the broker is an agent who connects both parties to facilitate a transaction.

Brokerage services play a crucial role in facilitating financial transactions and investments for individuals and institutions. These services are generally provided by licensed brokerage firms that are regulated in the UAE. Brokerage services can apply to stock trading, forex trading, commodity trading, derivative trading, as well as off- market transactions, such as transactions related to real estate purchases.

The nature of the service provided by the broker may differ depending on the commercial circumstances. For instance, for transactions in listed securities, investors often engage brokers to obtain their immediate access to the financial markets that allow them to transact quickly. However, for private transactions, investors may use


brokers to get access to a network of counterparties that they would not otherwise be aware of.

Brokers often facilitate negotiation and may formally represent either (or both) parties for certain steps in a transaction. This means there may not always be a clear dividing line between brokerage and investment management. As the Investment Manager Exemption applies to both brokerage and investment management services, it also applies to transactions and arrangements which have elements of both.

7.4. Regulatory oversight condition

The Investment Manager Exemption only applies if the investment management or brokerage services are subject to regulatory oversight in the UAE.112

In the UAE, the competent authorities are currently the SCA, the DFSA and the FSRA. Brokers or investment managers that have been authorised by any of these authorities to perform brokerage or investment management activities should meet the regulatory oversight condition.

7.5. Ordinary course of Business condition

The Investment Manager Exemption only applies if the transactions are carried out in the ordinary course of Business of the Investment Manager. 113 The expression "ordinary course of Business" is in relation to investment management and brokerage- related services. If the Investment Manager has Business Activities that are not investment management or brokerage services, the Investment Manager Exemption will not apply to those other Business Activities. The ordinary course of Business condition will usually be met if an Investment Manager carries out activities that are consistent with their Business as Investment Manager.

The fact that an Investment Manager performs activities outside their core area of expertise does not prevent this condition from being met. For instance, if an Investment Manager specialising in private equity funds also manages a debt fund, this should still be considered to fall within their ordinary course of Business. Similarly, an Investment Manager specialising in managing REITs could also separately manage an equity fund on behalf of a Non-Resident Person. The lack of track record or specific experience in relation to the transactions performed by the Investment Manager should not prevent the ordinary course of Business condition being met, as it can be expected that Investment Managers would often seek to expand and/or diversify the type of transactions they conduct.


112 Article 15(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
113 Article 15(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Managing investment funds or investors can create sufficient work for a sizeable team of investment management professionals. Therefore, if the Investment Manager's Business Activity consists exclusively or almost exclusively of managing one investment fund or one client account, this does not prevent the ordinary course of Business condition being met. However, in such a case it should be assessed whether the Investment Manager still meets the independent capacity condition (see below).

Given the nature of investment management and brokerage Business Activity, the Investment Manager Exemption is not intended to apply in respect of operational or commercial contracts that have no investment purpose. In line with this, the ordinary course of Business condition requires that the Investment Manager performs its services in relation to "transactions", which are limited to the following transactions that can be considered customary for investment management and brokerage services:114
1. transactions in commodities, real property, bonds, shares, derivatives or securities of any other description,
2. transactions of buying or selling any foreign currency or placement of funds at interest, and
3. such other transactions permissible to be carried out by the Investment Manager on behalf of a Non-Resident Person under the applicable (non-tax) legislation of the UAE.

7.6. Independent capacity condition

The Investment Manager Exemption only applies if the Investment Manager acts in relation to the transactions in an independent capacity.115 This would be the case if it is not bound by detailed instructions or comprehensive control on how to perform its services and use its professional discretion to optimise investment decisions or connect parties as part of a transaction where they act as broker. In such cases, the Non-Resident Person would rely on the special skill and knowledge of the Investment Manager, which supports that the Investment Manager is acting in an independent capacity. However, it may be more difficult for an Investment Manager to maintain and demonstrate an independent capacity if either:
* the Non-Resident Person is a Related Party, or
* the Investment Manager is legally or economically dependent or acts exclusively or almost exclusively on behalf of the Non-Resident Person.

If the Non-Resident Person is a Related Party, the independent capacity condition could still be met if the Investment Manager acts in an independent capacity based on its actual conduct. This could be the case if the Investment Manager performs similar


114 Article 15(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
115 Article 15(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.


services for Persons who are not a Related Party, and it conducts those services in a similar way. Alternatively, it could be the case if procedures are put in place to prevent the Non-Resident Person from direct interference with the investment management services and such procedures are adhered to.

If the Investment Manager performs services exclusively or almost exclusively for one Non-Resident Person, situations could arise where the Investment Manager is economically dependent on the Non-Resident Person. If so, the Investment Manager may struggle to keep providing investment management services in an independent capacity, as it might feel pressured to more closely follow suggestions made by the Non-Resident Person. However, this fact is not by itself determinative and all facts and circumstances need to be taken into account to determine whether the Investment Manager acts in an independent capacity. If the Investment Manager acts in an independent capacity based on its actual conduct, the independent capacity condition would still be met provided the transactions and arrangements are consistent with the arm's length standard. This means it would use its professional judgement and discretion in the investment management services rather than relying on instructions by the Non-Resident Person.

In the case of investment funds, an Investment Manager's ability to act independently is usually protected by the fact that it cannot easily be replaced. As the Investment Manager's position is effectively "locked in", the Investment Manager would not be economically dependent on the investors of the investment fund. Although the Investment Manager would earn all or almost all of its income from the investment fund itself, it would usually control the decision making of the investment fund and therefore would not be dependent on the instructions of the investment fund. As a result, the Investment Manager would usually be able to act in an independent capacity in such cases.

Whether the Investment Manager acts in an independent capacity should be tested in relation to the transaction in respect of which the Investment Manager Exemption is intended to be applied. Please refer to Section 7.5 for the meaning of the expression "transactions".

7.7. Arm's length condition

The Investment Manager Exemption only applies if investment management or brokerage transactions and arrangements are on an arm's length basis with the Non- Resident Person and, accordingly, the Investment Manager receives due compensation for its services.116



116 Article 15(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.


It is possible that an Investment Manager provides investment management or brokerage services to Related Parties. In such a case, this condition will be met if the services are remunerated consistent with the arm's length standard. If a retroactive "true-up" adjustment is made to Taxable Income to comply with the arm's length standard, this is considered remuneration consistent with the arm's length standard.

If the fee for the Investment Manager is the result of a third-party arrangement and subject to arm's length commercial negotiations, it would be considered arm's length and the arm's length condition would be met.

For example, if an Investment Manager enters into an investment management agreement with an investment fund established by it (or one of its Related Parties), the fees paid by the investment fund will economically be borne by the investors in the investment fund. Investors that are not Related Parties of the Investment Manager will only invest in the investment fund if they agree to the fee structure. If third-party investors agree to the fund documentation that specified the fee arrangements, those fees would be regarded arm's length. If the majority of ownership interests in an investment fund is held by such third-party investors who agreed to the fee arrangements in such a way that the same or lower fees are charged, yet the equivalent amount is economically borne by any Related Parties that hold an ownership interest in the investment fund, then the arm's length condition would be met.

If a fund structure includes several entities, it is possible that the Investment Manager received an arm's length remuneration only from a single entity which remunerates services provided to several entities included in a fund structure. In this case, the arm's length condition will be met.





Similarly, if the Investment Manager has agreed to offer certain co-investment opportunities to key investors without a specific remuneration, the arm's length condition is also considered to be met, provided the overall compensation that the Investment Manager receives for its services is an arm's length amount.

Investment funds can allow staff of the Investment Manager to co-invest. Often, this co-investment is structured as carried interest. This means that the carried interest holders would only receive a return if the investment fund has received a return on investment above a certain rate (the "hurdle rate"). Once the hurdle rate has been reached, a portion of any additional return (for example, 20%) is allocated to the carried interest holders.

The carried interest holders are often (but not always) grouped in a separate fund vehicle which is also managed by the Investment Manager. This is effectively a feeder fund. The Investment Manager may or may not charge a fee to the carried interest holders. However, the carried interest holders would only receive a return on investment once all expenses of the main fund have been paid, including the management fee charged by the Investment Manager. As mentioned earlier, this could arise from the commercial arrangement between parties and it is possible that the Investment Manager received an arm's length remuneration only from a single carried interest holder which remunerates services provided to several such holders. In this case, the arm's length condition will be met as long the overall compensation is in accordance with the arm's length standard for managing a carried interest vehicle.

7.8. No other representation relation condition

The Investment Manager Exemption only applies if the Investment Manager does not represent the Non-Resident Person in relation to any other income or transaction that


is subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE.117 This means that if the Investment Manager represents the Non-Resident Person in relation to any matter not connected with the Investment Manager's role as an investment manager and this representation has triggered a Permanent Establishment in the UAE under Article 14(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law, the Investment Manager Exemption will not apply in relation to any representation of such Investment Manager.

If a Non-Resident Person is liable to Corporate Tax due to receiving State Sourced Income (not currently applicable), or a nexus outlined in Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023, their liability to Corporate Tax is the result of receiving income of a certain type. In other words, the Non-Resident Person's liability to Corporate Tax would have occurred regardless of whether an Investment Manager has represented them in relation to such transactions. Therefore, if a Non-Resident Person is liable to Corporate Tax only as a result of State Sourced Income (not currently applicable), or a nexus outlined in Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023, the no other representation relation condition could still be met.

If a Non-Resident Person already has an existing Permanent Establishment that is unrelated to the activities of the Investment Manager, it is still possible to meet the no other representation relation condition.

For example, if a foreign company ("Company X") leases a shop in the UAE through which it retails its consumer products for its own account, that shop may constitute a fixed place of Business and Company X may have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE. If the foreign company has generated a significant amount of cash from their global operations (not connected to the Permanent Establishment in the UAE), it could use the services of an Investment Manager in the UAE to invest on its behalf. Even though Company X has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, the Investment Manager does not act as a representative for Company X in relation to any of the activities of the Permanent Establishment. Therefore, the no other representation condition is met and it is possible to apply the Investment Manager Exemption for the return on investments earned by Company X through the Investment Manager, if the other conditions are also met.

7.9. Other conditions

Article 15(1)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law allows the Cabinet to set additional conditions on the Investment Manager Exemption. Currently, no additional conditions have been set.




117 Article 15(1)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law.


8.	Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
May 2024
* First version

	

















Taxation of Partnerships

Corporate Tax Guide | CTGPTN1

March 2024


Contents
1. Glossary	4
2. Introduction	9
2.1. Overview	9
2.2. Purpose of this guide	9
2.3. Who should read this guide?	9
2.4. How to use this guide	9
2.5. Legislative references	10
2.6. Status of this guide	11
3. Overview of partnerships	12
3.1. What is a partnership?	12
3.2. Incorporated partnerships	12
3.3. Unincorporated Partnerships	14
4. Unincorporated Partnerships for Corporate Tax	17
4.1. Overview	17
4.2. Who can be a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership?	17
4.3. Key features of an Unincorporated Partnership	18
4.3.1. .	Liability of the Unincorporated Partnership and its partners for Corporate Tax18
4.3.2. Partnership deed/agreement	18
4.3.3. Distributive share of partners	19
4.3.4. Capital contributions by partners	19
4.3.5. Payments to partners	20
4.3.6. Dissolution of partnership	20
5. Unincorporated Partnerships and Corporate Tax	21
5.1. Unincorporated Partnership treated as fiscally transparent	21
5.1.1. Where a partner is a natural person	21
5.1.2. Where a partner is a juridical person	22
5.1.3. Mixed partnership	22
5.2. Unincorporated Partnership treated as fiscally opaque	24
5.3. Determining Taxable Income for an Unincorporated Partnership and its partners . 25
5.4. Income received by the Unincorporated Partnership and/or its partners	26
5.4.1. Investment income received by an Unincorporated Partnership and its partners 26

5.4.2. Distribution of profits by Unincorporated Partnership to its partners	29
5.4.3. Transfer of partner's distributive share in an Unincorporated Partnership	30
5.5. Deductible expenditure	31
5.5.1. Expenditure incurred for Business purposes	32
5.5.2. Interest expenditure	33
5.5.3. Interest paid to partners on their capital contribution	35
5.5.4. Interest paid to partners on loan advanced by partners	37
5.5.5. Interest expenditure incurred by partners to fund capital contributions	38
5.5.6. Salary paid to partners in an Unincorporated Partnership	39
5.5.7. Payment to partners for services provided to an Unincorporated Partnership 41 5.5.8.	Reimbursements of expenditure to partners	42
5.6. Tax Loss relief and limitation on Tax Loss carry forward	44
5.7. Foreign Tax Credit	45
6. Application to be treated as Taxable Person	47
6.1. Application and timing of change in status to Taxable Person	47
6.2. Other Corporate Tax consequences of being treated as a Taxable Person	47
6.3. Whether an application to be treated as a Taxable Person can be revoked	48
6.4. Procedural aspects	48
6.5. Implications of partners following different methods of accounting	49
7. Corporate Tax compliance obligations	52
7.1. Corporate Tax registration	52
7.1.1. Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership	52
7.1.2. Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership	52
7.2. Tax Returns	53
7.2.1. Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership	53
7.2.2. Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership	53
7.3. Tax Periods	53
7.3.1. Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership	54
7.3.2. Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership	54
7.4. Financial Statements	55
8. Tax treatment of Foreign Partnerships	56
8.1. Conditions to be treated as an Unincorporated Partnership	56
8.2. Foreign Partnership not treated as an Unincorporated Partnership	57
9. Interaction with Free Zone Persons	58

9.1. Can a partnership be a Free Zone Person?	58
9.2. Can a Free Zone Person be a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership?	58
9.3. Corporate Tax implications where a Free Zone Person is a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership	58
9.4. Branch of Unincorporated Partnership in a Free Zone	59
10. Interplay with Small Business Relief	60
11. Unincorporated Partnership and Business events	61
11.1. Overview and general principles	61
11.2. A partner's distributive share	61
11.3. Unincorporated Partnerships and Business events	61
11.3.1. A change in a partner's distributive share	61
11.3.2. Disposal of distributive share	62
11.3.3. Consideration for transfer or sale	62
11.3.4. Cost of acquisition of distributive share	63
11.3.5. Application for a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a Taxable Person, i.e. fiscally opaque	67
11.3.6. Transfer of the Unincorporated Partnership's Business	67
11.4. Treatment of income or expenditure for a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership after a partner leaves or retires	68
11.4.1. Treatment of Corporate Tax Payable after a partner leaves or retires from an Unincorporated Partnership	71
12. Transactions with Related Parties and Connected Persons	73
13. General Anti-abuse Rule	75
14. Updates and Amendments	76

1. Glossary

Accounting Income: The accounting net profit or loss for the relevant Tax Period as per the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Accounting Standards: The accounting standards specified in Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.

Accrual Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income when earned and expenditure when incurred.

AED: The United Arab Emirates dirham.

Authority: Federal Tax Authority.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business Restructuring Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for business restructuring transactions, available under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.

Cash Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income and expenditure when cash payments are received and paid.

Connected Person: Any Person affiliated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 36(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments.

Corporate Tax Payable: Corporate Tax that has or will become due for payment to the FTA in respect of one or more Tax Periods.


Dividend: Any payments or distributions that are declared or paid on or in respect of shares or other rights participating in the profits of the issuer of such shares or rights which do not constitute a return on capital or a return on debt claims, whether such payments or distributions are in cash, securities, or other properties, and whether payable out of profits or retained earnings or from any account or legal reserve or from capital reserve or revenue. This will include any payment or benefit which in substance or effect constitutes a distribution of profits made in connection with the acquisition or redemption or cancellation of shares or termination of other ownership interests or rights or any transaction or arrangement with a Related Party or Connected Person which does not comply with Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Double Taxation Agreement: An international agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Exempt Income: Any income exempt from Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.

Financial Year: The Gregorian calendar year, or the twelve-month period for which the Taxable Person prepares Financial Statements.

Foreign Partnership: A relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with laws of a foreign jurisdiction.

Foreign Tax Credit: Tax paid under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction on income or profits that may be deducted from the Corporate Tax due, in accordance with the conditions of Article 47(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.


General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule: The limitation provided under Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law.

IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.

IFRS for SMEs: International Financial Reporting Standard for small and medium- sized entities.

Interest: Any amount accrued or paid for the use of money or credit, including discounts, premiums and profit paid in respect of an Islamic financial instrument and other payments economically equivalent to interest, and any other amounts incurred in connection with the raising of finance, excluding payments of the principal amount.

Licence: A document issued by a Licensing Authority under which a Business or Business Activity is conducted in the UAE.

Licensing Authority: The competent authority concerned with licensing or authorising a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.

Net Interest Expenditure: The Interest expenditure amount that is in excess of the Interest income amount as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participating Interest: An ownership interest in the shares or capital of a juridical person that meets the conditions referred to in Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participation: The juridical person in which the Participating Interest is held.

Participation Exemption: An exemption from Corporate Tax for income from a Participating Interest, available under Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.

Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.


Personal Investment: Investment activity that a natural person conducts for their personal account that is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022.

Qualifying Free Zone Person: A Free Zone Person that meets the conditions of Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law and is subject to Corporate Tax under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Income: Any income derived by a Qualifying Free Zone Person that is subject to Corporate Tax at the rate specified in Article 3(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Real Estate Investment: Any investment activity conducted by a natural person related to, directly or indirectly, the sale, leasing, sub-leasing, and renting of land or real estate property in the UAE that is not conducted, or does not require to be conducted through a Licence from a Licensing Authority.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.

Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

Specific Interest Deduction Limitation Rule: The limitation provided under Article 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.

State: United Arab Emirates.

State Sourced Income: Income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE as specified in Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Subsidiary: A Resident Person in which the share capital or Membership or Partnership Capital, as applicable, is held by a Parent Company, in accordance with Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Tax Group: Two or more Taxable Persons treated as a single Taxable Person according to the conditions of Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Loss: Any negative Taxable Income as calculated under the Corporate Tax Law for a given Tax Period.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Registration: A procedure under which a Person registers for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Registration Number: A unique number issued by the FTA to each Person who is registered for Corporate Tax purposes in the UAE.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

Turnover: The gross amount of income derived during a Gregorian calendar year.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.

Unincorporated Partnership: A relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Withholding Tax: Corporate Tax to be withheld from State Sourced Income in accordance with Article 45 of the Corporate Tax Law.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on the taxation of partnerships. The guide provides the following:
* a general understanding of how the Corporate Tax Law treats partnerships,
* information about how the Corporate Tax Law applies to a partnership and its partners, including special provisions that apply to partnerships and the tax treatment of commonly occurring events, and
* information regarding the registration, filing requirements, compliance and other tax obligations related to partnerships and partners.

2.3. Who should read this guide?

The guide should be read by Persons that are carrying on a Business in the UAE, with other Persons by way of a partnership arrangement or trust or any other similar association of Persons.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Corporate Tax Law apply to partnerships. The examples in the guide:


- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:
* Federal Law No. 5 of 1985 promulgating the Civil Transactions Law, and its amendments, is referred to as "Civil Code";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 32 of 2021 on Commercial Companies is referred to as "Commercial Companies Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments, is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Cabinet Decision No. 116 of 2022 on the annual Taxable Income subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 116 of 2022";
* Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 on Specifying the Categories of Businesses or Business Activities Conducted by a Resident or Non-Resident Natural Person that are Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023";
* Cabinet Decision No. 100 of 2023 on Determining Qualifying Income for the Qualifying Free Zone Person for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 100 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023 Concerning Exception from Tax Registration for the Purpose of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023 on the Determination of Categories of Taxable Persons Required to Prepare and Maintain Audited Financial Statements for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023";


* Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023 on Unincorporated Partnership, Foreign Partnership and Family Foundation for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023 on the General Rules for determining Taxable Income for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 265 of 2023 Regarding Qualifying Activities and Excluded Activities for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 265 of 2023"; and
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 16 of 2023 on Determining the Requirements for the Registration of the Unincorporated Partnership and Determining the Distributive Shares of Partners in an Unincorporated Partnership for the purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 16 of 2023".

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the tax implications for partnerships relating to the Corporate Tax regime in the UAE. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. Overview of partnerships

3.1. What is a partnership?

A partnership is normally an arrangement, relationship or contract between two or more Persons to carry on Business together, and to share the profits and losses of that Business.

In the UAE context, a partnership may be an incorporated partnership, or an Unincorporated Partnership. The key distinguishing factor between the two is that an incorporated partnership has a separate legal personality distinct from its partners whereas an Unincorporated Partnership does not. Incorporated partnerships are considered juridical persons for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law. The Corporate Tax Law contains specific provisions for Unincorporated Partnerships, which are considered later in this guide.

3.2. Incorporated partnerships

Whether an entity is treated as an incorporated partnership i.e. a juridical person with a separate legal personality depends on the legislation under which it is incorporated, established or set up.

The legal status of an incorporated partnership will be informed by the relevant legislation in the UAE. The relevant legislation includes the Federal, Emirate and Free Zone legislation and regulations.

Based on the relevant legislation, the following is an illustrative list of entities considered as incorporated partnerships and, therefore, treated as juridical persons under the Corporate Tax law.

a) Joint Liability Company: A Joint Liability Company established under the Commercial Companies Law is a company which consists of two or more physical partners that are severally and jointly liable in all their personal assets for the company's obligations.1
b) Limited Partnership Company: A Limited Partnership Company established under the Commercial Companies Law is a company which consists of one or more joint partners, having the capacity of traders, who are liable, severally and jointly, for the partnership's obligations, and one or more silent partners who are not liable for the partnership's obligations except to the extent of their contribution to the partnership's capital. Silent partners do not have the capacity of a trader.2

1 Article 39 of the Commercial Companies Law.
2 Article 62 of the Commercial Companies Law.


c) Civil Company: As established under Article 92(e) of the Civil Code, a contract, by which two or more persons undertake to contribute jointly to an undertaking of a pecuniary nature by providing a contribution of property or services, with the objective of sharing in the profits or the losses of the undertaking.3 These are known as civil companies or business partnerships in general parlance.
d) General Partnership: A General Partnership established under the General Partnership Law Dubai International Finance Centre (DIFC) Law No. 11 of 2004 is a relationship which exists between two or more persons who agree to carry on any Business with the intention of making a profit.4 Each partner of a General Partnership is jointly and severally liable with the other partners for all debts and obligations of the General Partnership incurred while he is a partner.5
e) Limited Liability Partnership: A Limited Liability Partnership established under the Limited Liability Partnership Law DIFC Law No. 5 of 2004 is established between two or more persons to conduct any lawful business.6 The members of a Limited Liability Partnership have liability to contribute to its assets in the event of it being wound up.7
f) Limited Partnership: A Limited Partnership established under the Limited Partnership Law DIFC Law No. 4 of 2006 for any lawful purpose by two or more persons and may consist of any number of persons but includes: (a) one or more persons called General Partners, who are liable for all debts and obligations of the Limited Partnership; and (b) one or more persons called Limited Partners, who make a contribution at the time of entering the partnership (either in money, money's worth or any other property), and are not liable for the debts and obligations of the partnership beyond the amount of their contribution.8

Note that partnerships listed under (a), (b) and (c) above are incorporated under UAE federal law whereas others are typically found under the laws of Free Zones. The above is not an exhaustive list of incorporated partnership forms.

The above partnerships, under the applicable legislation, have a separate legal identity from their partners.9 That is to say the partnerships themselves have their own rights,

3 Article 92(e) and Article 655 of the Civil Code.
4 Article 8 and Article 11 of the General Partnership Law DIFC Law No. 11 of 2004.
5 Article 28 of the General Partnership Law DIFC Law No. 11 of 2004.
6 Article 8 of Limited Liability Partnership Law DIFC Law No. 5 of 2004.
7 Article 15 of Limited Liability Partnership Law DIFC Law No. 5 of 2004 and Article 1 of ADGM Limited Liability Partnership Regulations 2015.
8 Article 9 of the Limited Partnership Law DIFC No. 4 of 2006.
9 Article 21 of the Commercial Companies Law (for Joint Liability Company and Limited Partnership Company), Article 92 and Article 655 of the Civil Code (for partnerships i.e. civil companies), Article 24 of the General Partnership Law DIFC Law no. 11 of 2004 (for General Partnership), Article 15 of the Limited Liability Partnership Law DIFC Law no. 5 of 2004 (for Limited Liability Partnership), Article 19 of the Limited Partnership Law DIFC Law no. 4 of 2006 (for Limited Partnership).


obligations and liabilities. Accordingly, the above partnerships are juridical persons under the applicable legislation, as well as for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law.

On the basis that they are juridical persons, the Corporate Tax treatment of incorporated partnerships is aligned with the tax treatment of other juridical persons such as Limited Liability Companies (LLCs). The partners in these partnerships are not directly taxed on the Business conducted by the partnership, as this is taxed at the level of the incorporated partnership. The partners will generally receive a share in profits that will not be subject to Corporate Tax as the partnership is treated as a Resident Person in the UAE, and the Corporate Tax Law exempts Dividends and other profit distributions from a juridical person that is a Resident Person.10

3.3. Unincorporated Partnerships

The Corporate Tax Law defines an Unincorporated Partnership as a relationship established by contract between two or more Persons, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE.11 This can be to carry on a Business or a project and share its profits and losses, such as a partnership, trust, joint venture, consortium, association of persons, etc. The contract can be verbal or written. The reference to a contractual relationship in the definition of Unincorporated Partnership means that, legally, the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership and its owners is or can be considered the same.

Certain illustrative factors that may indicate that an entity or an arrangement is an Unincorporated Partnership include:
* A contract (written or verbal) entered into by all the Persons concerned.
* The intention to share the profits and losses of the Business.
* The partners are conducting the Business Activities jointly.
* The partnership does not have a separate legal personality, distinct from its partners.

The above factors are merely illustrative and are not conclusive to determine whether an Unincorporated Partnership exists.

The following examples demonstrate some common situations and whether they create an Unincorporated Partnership between the Persons involved:







10 Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
11 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 1: Mere use of the expression "partners" not decisive

Two brothers each carry on a separate, independent Business from the same premises. They acquired the premises through a mortgage loan. The mortgage documents refer to the brothers as "partners".

However, the two brothers do not conduct a joint Business and have no intention of sharing the profits and losses of their independent Businesses. The simple use of the expression "partners" cannot by itself be treated as the basis for concluding that a partnership exists.

Example 2: Joint profit-seeking motive

The brothers mentioned in the above example decide, through a verbal agreement, to use part of the premises as a joint canteen (potentially profit-making) to sell food to the employees working for their respective Businesses. This will be considered as an Unincorporated Partnership as the brothers are conducting Business Activities jointly, and have agreed to share Business profits and losses.

Example 3: Statement of intent

The brothers mentioned in the above examples formalise the agreement regarding the joint canteen through a written contract (though not incorporated/established under any federal or Emirate level laws). In the written contract, they include the statement that "there is no intention to create a partnership". Such a statement by itself will not prevent their Business from being considered as an Unincorporated Partnership for the purpose of the Corporate Tax Law.

Example 4: Joint bank account

An account is opened in the joint names of a sole proprietor and their Business manager, for seamless execution of Business operations. This arrangement does not by itself create an Unincorporated Partnership.

Example 5: A husband and wife

A husband and wife agree to enter into a partnership with a food influencer and use their home to bake and sell cupcakes, with the intent of sharing the profits and losses based on each Person's financial contributions, added value, and invested effort. Their agreement, even if only verbal, constitutes an Unincorporated Partnership as two (or more) Persons constitute a partnership if they jointly conduct Business.


Example 6: Public and private partnerships

An arrangement between a public sector entity (a government department) and a private sector company wherein the public sector entity awards a contract/project to the private sector company for a stipulated period would not, in itself, be considered to be an Unincorporated Partnership if none of the key elements of an Unincorporated Partnership are met.

Typically, the intention of such a contract is not to execute the project jointly. Instead, the public sector company engages/awards the project to a private sector company with the intention of encouraging private sector participation in economic and social development, utilising financial, technical, and technological potential/experience of the private sector, transferring knowledge from private to public sector, etc.

Typically, the private sector company implements, finances, owns, reaps the commercial benefits and operates a project for an agreed term after which the ownership of the project site is transferred back to the public sector entity.

Example 7: Consortium of companies or contractual joint venture

Company A and Company B collaborate to bid for a government project to construct and operate a national highway for 30 years. During this period, Company A and Company B sign an agreement to build the highway, share the profits, losses and management of the project equally.

After the stipulated tenure the project site is expected to be handed over to the government department. The consortium of companies/contractual joint venture (i.e. between Company A and Company B) would be treated as an Unincorporated Partnership.

On the other hand, if the project is conducted through a special purpose vehicle such as a Limited Liability Company in which Company A and Company B hold shares, the joint venture would not be an Unincorporated Partnership.


4. Unincorporated Partnerships for Corporate Tax

4.1. Overview

As noted above, the Corporate Tax Law defines an Unincorporated Partnership as a relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE.12

A Foreign Partnership may also be treated as an Unincorporated Partnership if certain conditions are satisfied (see Section 8 for further details).

An Unincorporated Partnership as defined in the Corporate Tax Law does not necessarily have to adopt a formal written partnership agreement. A verbal agreement can also be sufficient, whereby the parties agree to share Business profits and losses. In addition, an Unincorporated Partnership can take on various forms, including a trust or similar association of persons which is not a juridical person.

As per the Corporate Tax Law, the default position is that an Unincorporated Partnership is not considered a Taxable Person in its own right. Instead, the Corporate Tax Law "looks through" the Unincorporated Partnership and taxes each partner directly on their share of profits or gains. Such a partnership is considered to be "fiscally transparent".

The partners in an Unincorporated Partnership can make an application to the FTA for the Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a Taxable Person in its own right.13 An Unincorporated Partnership treated as a Taxable Person is considered to be "fiscally opaque".

Unincorporated Partnerships, and their treatment for Corporate Tax purposes, are discussed in more detail in the following Sections.

4.2. Who can be a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership?

The word "Person" is defined in the Corporate Tax Law as a natural person or a juridical person.14 Hence a partner in a partnership can be an individual or a legal entity.

An Unincorporated Partnership relationship can exist between a number of natural persons, a number of juridical persons or a combination of juridical persons and

12 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
13 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
14 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.


natural persons. The partners can be incorporated partnerships, residents and non- resident persons, UAE and foreign incorporated companies.

Where a partnership itself is not treated as a distinct legal entity, separate from its partners, the partnership cannot become a partner in another partnership. Only partnerships that have their own separate legal personality can become a partner in another partnership.

Thus, an Unincorporated Partnership cannot become a partner in a partnership as it does not have a separate legal personality (i.e. is not a juridical person), even where the Unincorporated Partnership is treated as a Taxable Person in its own right.

The Corporate Tax Law provides for the concept of a Tax Group.15 This enables a parent company, together with one or more juridical Resident Persons (i.e. its Subsidiaries) to be treated as a single Taxable Person, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. Even though the Tax Group is treated as a Taxable Person for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law, the Tax Group itself is not a Person. It is merely a construct of the Corporate Tax Law. Therefore, a Tax Group cannot be a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership. However, the Parent Company, or the Subsidiaries that are members of the Tax Group, can individually be partners in an Unincorporated Partnership, as they are juridical persons with a separate legal personality.

4.3. Key features of an Unincorporated Partnership

4.3.1. Liability of the Unincorporated Partnership and its partners for Corporate Tax

An Unincorporated Partnership is the result of a contractual relationship between its partners. Thus, the Business of an Unincorporated Partnership and its owners or partners is considered to be the same, i.e. the partners are deemed to be conducting the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership and they remain jointly and severally liable for the Corporate Tax Payable for the Tax Periods when they are partners in the Unincorporated Partnership.16

4.3.2. Partnership deed/agreement

A partnership arrangement is typically governed by a partnership deed or agreement which lays down the essential terms and conditions of the Business relationship of all the parties involved. This may cover initial contributions into the Business, distributive share or profit/loss sharing ratio, rights and obligations, terms of admission of new partner/s, exit process, interest payable on capital contributions, etc.

15 Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.
16 Article 16(9)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.



As discussed earlier, it is not necessary for the Unincorporated Partnership to have a formal written contract. Partners in an Unincorporated Partnership may opt to agree the terms of their Business relations verbally.

4.3.3. Distributive share of partners

Generally, the distributive share of partners is defined prior to the commencement of Business or during the course of Business of the Unincorporated Partnership by way of a partnership deed or agreement (see section 4.3.2).

Accordingly, the assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of the Unincorporated Partnership are allocated to each partner based on their agreed distributive share, depending on the agreement between the partners.17

In case the distributive share of any partner in an Unincorporated Partnership cannot be identified (for example, due to a dispute between partners, addition of new partners or departure of existing partners), then the assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of the Unincorporated Partnership will be treated by FTA as allocated equally to each partner.18

4.3.4. Capital contributions by partners

Typically, partners of a partnership will mutually agree the initial contribution from each partner. Partners who join at a later date may also provide a contribution.

The total capital contribution by a partner may include the amount that the partner has contributed to the partnership in cash or in kind (though not including any loans) but exclude amounts that the partner has drawn out or received, directly or indirectly.

Capital contributions by partners may take different forms. A partner may, by mutual agreement, contribute capital in the form of cash or in kind which may include real property, shares, securities, intellectual property, technical know-how, labour, etc.

It is not mandatory for all partners to contribute capital to the partnership or to contribute equal capital. The partners can agree on the contribution of each partner and the form of contribution.






17 Article 16(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
18 Article 16(3) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 4 of FTA Decision No. 16 of 2023.


4.3.5. Payments to partners

Partners may receive certain payments from the partnership such as interest on the amount of capital contributed or loan advanced to the partnership, salary for working partners, or payment for rendering services to the partnership (beyond the capacity of a partner).

The Corporate Tax considerations in relation to such payments are discussed in Section 5.

4.3.6. Dissolution of partnership

Dissolution of a partnership is the winding up of the Business of the partnership, including disposing of all assets, discharging all liabilities and the settlement of accounts, etc.

Dissolution may be voluntary when it is mutually agreed by all partners or if the purpose for which the partnership was incorporated has been achieved, for example the completion of a project for which the partnership was established. Typically, a partnership may not be dissolved by the actions of fewer than all partners, unless such powers expressly exist in the partnership agreement, or this is permitted by the laws governing the partnership. If the reason is due to a dispute among the partners, the partnership interest of one or more partners may be purchased by the other partners instead of the dissolution of the partnership.

Dissolution may be compulsory in certain instances, for example due to the Business becoming insolvent or being specifically ordered by a court.


5. Unincorporated Partnerships and Corporate Tax

5.1. Unincorporated Partnership treated as fiscally transparent

The default position in the Corporate Tax Law is that an Unincorporated Partnership is treated as fiscally transparent, meaning that it is not treated as a Taxable Person, and is not subject to Corporate Tax. Instead, each partner is treated as conducting the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership and subject to Corporate Tax on their distributive share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure in the Unincorporated Partnership.

Therefore, it is the partners, not the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, that must consider their Corporate Tax position.19

5.1.1. Where a partner is a natural person

A natural person that is a partner in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, will be subject to Corporate Tax in proportion to their distributive share if they fall within the scope of Corporate Tax.

The Corporate Tax Law treats partners in an Unincorporated Partnership as conducting the Business of that partnership. Thus, for a natural person, when considering if they fall within the scope of Corporate Tax, they must consider the nature of the Business or Business Activity conducted by the Unincorporated Partnership and whether it would constitute Personal Investment or Real Estate Investment. If so, the income from such activities is disregarded by the natural person as it falls outside of the scope of Corporate Tax. 20

In relation to any other Business or Business Activity conducted by the Unincorporated Partnership, the natural person must include their distributive share of the Turnover of such partnership with any other Turnover of such natural person to determine whether it exceeds AED 1 million in a Gregorian calendar year.

Turnover is defined as the gross amount of income (before adjusting for any expenses) derived during a Gregorian calendar year.21 Therefore, the gross amount of income they receive from the Unincorporated Partnership is aggregated with all of their income from other Business or Business Activity conducted in the UAE when considering the AED 1 million threshold.


19 Article 16(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
20 Article 2(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
21 Article 11(6) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.


If their Turnover does not exceed AED 1 million, the natural person is not required to register for Corporate Tax purposes.22

In addition, and where all the relevant conditions are met, Small Business Relief may be available for Resident Persons where the Revenue threshold is not exceeded (currently AED 3 million, see Section 10).23 For a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, Small Business Relief will be considered for each of the partners separately.

5.1.2. Where a partner is a juridical person

5.1.2.1. Juridical person that is a Resident Person

A juridical person that is a Resident Person is subject to Corporate Tax in proportion to its distributive share in the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership together with any other Business it conducts. However, whether or not it has a Corporate Tax liability will depend on multiple factors, including, whether it is eligible to make an election for Small Business Relief.

5.1.2.2. Juridical person that is a Non-Resident Person

A juridical person that is a Non-Resident Person is subject to Corporate Tax if it has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE24 or derives State Sourced Income25 or has a nexus in the UAE.26

Accordingly, a juridical person that is a Non-Resident Person will be subject to Corporate Tax on its distributive share in the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership if the Unincorporated Partnership constitutes a Permanent Establishment in the UAE or nexus in the UAE. If not, the distributive share of that partner in the Unincorporated Partnership will be treated as State Sourced Income.27

5.1.3. Mixed partnership

A mixed partnership is a partnership that has both natural persons and juridical persons as partners. An Unincorporated Partnership may have both as partners.

22 Article 2(3) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
23 Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law read with Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
24 Article 11(4)(a) read with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.
25 Article 11(4)(b) read with Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.
26 Article 11(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
27 As per Article 45(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, certain categories of State Sourced Income derived by a Non-Resident Person that is not attributable to a Permanent Establishment, may be subject to Withholding Tax. The current Withholding Tax rate is 0%.


Example 8: A natural person forms an Unincorporated Partnership with a company

Mr A (a natural person residing in the UAE) and Company B (a company incorporated in and a tax resident of the UAE) form an Unincorporated Partnership with a distributive share of 10% and 90%, respectively.

The income from the Business conducted by the Unincorporated Partnership within the first Gregorian calendar year is AED 10 million.

If the Unincorporated Partnership is treated as fiscally transparent:
* The Unincorporated Partnership is not subject to Corporate Tax.
* The share of income for Mr A is AED 1 million (10% of AED 10 million).
* The share of income for Company B is AED 9 million (90% of AED 10 million).

Assume that Mr A's distributive share of income is equal to his Turnover, and Mr A has no other income. Then, as the Turnover (AED 1 million) derived by Mr A from conducting the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership does not exceed AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year, Mr A is not subject to Corporate Tax and is not required to register for Corporate Tax purposes.28

Unlike natural persons, a juridical person that is a Taxable Person is required to register for Corporate Tax purposes irrespective of their Turnover. Accordingly, Company B will be required to register for Corporate Tax and will be subject to Corporate Tax. 90% of the income and expenditure of the Unincorporated Partnership is attributable to Company B and will be considered for the purpose of determining the Taxable Income of Company B.



28 Article 2(3) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.


The distributive share of each partner in relation to the above is as follows:



Item
Mr. A (20%)
Company B (80%)

Amounts in AED
Income from Business
2,000,000
8,000,000
Less: Expenditure incurred for Business
(1,200,000)
(4,800,000)
Net income (assuming no other adjustments)
800,000
3,200,000

If the Unincorporated Partnership is treated as fiscally transparent, it is not subject to Corporate Tax. Instead, the partners are subject to Corporate Tax individually.

In this case, as the Turnover (i.e. AED 2,000,000) derived by Mr. A from conducting the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership exceeds AED 1 million, Mr. A will be subject to Corporate Tax and is required to register for Corporate Tax purposes.29

Unlike natural persons, a juridical person that is a Taxable Person is required to register for Corporate Tax purposes irrespective of their Turnover. Accordingly, Company B will be required to register for Corporate Tax and will be subject to Corporate Tax. 80% of the income and expenditure of the Unincorporated Partnership is attributable to Company B and will be considered for the purpose of determining the Taxable Income of Company B.

5.2. Unincorporated Partnership treated as fiscally opaque

The partners of an Unincorporated Partnership have the option to make an application to the FTA for the Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a Taxable Person, i.e. fiscally opaque.30

If the application is approved by the FTA, the Unincorporated Partnership will be treated as a Taxable Person. It will be subject to Corporate Tax as a Resident Person. As a Taxable Person, it will determine its Taxable Income and pay Corporate Tax on its own profits, instead of the partners.

However, the partners will still be jointly and severally liable for the Corporate Tax Payable by the Unincorporated Partnership for the Tax Periods during which they are partners.31

29 Article 3(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
30 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
31 Article 16(9)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.3. Determining Taxable Income for an Unincorporated Partnership and its partners

The partners of an Unincorporated Partnership are the Taxable Persons in respect of the partnership's Business unless an application has been made by the partners to treat the Unincorporated Partnership as a Taxable Person and such application is approved by the FTA.

Irrespective of who is the Taxable Person in a partnership arrangement (i.e. the partners or the partnership itself), each Taxable Person is required to determine their Taxable Income separately based on adequate, standalone Financial Statements prepared based on International Financial Reporting Standards or the International Financial Reporting Standard for SMEs (if the Taxable Person derives Revenue that does not exceed AED 50 million).32

In addition:
* If partners are treated as Taxable Persons (in the case of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership), each partner is required to prepare and maintain audited Financial Statements if their individual Revenue exceeds AED 50 million.33
* If the Unincorporated Partnership is treated as a Taxable Person (in the case of a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership), the partnership is required to prepare and maintain audited Financial Statements if its Revenue exceeds AED 50 million.34

To determine the Taxable Income of the Taxable Person, the starting point is the Accounting Income (i.e. accounting net profit or loss) for the relevant Tax Period as per the Financial Statements. This is then adjusted according to the general rules prescribed for determining the Taxable Income.35

In relation to partners in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, for practical purposes, the partners will need to determine the joint income and expenditure and resultant net income of the Unincorporated Partnership first, in order to split such income and expenditure and resultant net income in proportion to each partner's distributive share. They will then need to add their share of the partnership net income to their net income from any other Business or Business Activity.

Generally, income arising from the operation of the partnership Business will be included in the income of each partner in accordance with their distributive share in

32 Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
33 Article 54(2)(1) read with Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023.
34 Article 54(2)(1) read with Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023.
35 Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.


relation to a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership. However, some forms of income and expenditure arising in the context of an Unincorporated Partnership warrant specific consideration as discussed below.

5.4. Income received by the Unincorporated Partnership and/or its partners

5.4.1. Investment income received by an Unincorporated Partnership and its partners

The Corporate Tax implications for the Unincorporated Partnership and its partners on receipt of income from investments, such as (a) Dividends or other profit distributions or (b) gains or losses on transfer, sale, or disposal of shares or ownership interest in another juridical person are as follows:

Item
Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership
Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership
Income		from investments made	by		the Unincorporated Partnership
If the partner is a juridical person:

Income in the nature of Dividends or other profit distributions from a juridical person will directly pass through to the partners in proportion to each partner's distributive share and will be subject to Corporate Tax in the hands of each individual partner. Such income will be exempt from Corporate Tax in the hands of the partners if:
(a) it is received from a juridical person that is a Resident Person (without any conditions) 36 or
(b) it is received from a Participating Interest in a foreign juridical person.37
Any income received by a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership will be treated for Corporate Tax purposes as income in the hands of the partnership and not in the hands of the individual partners.

Income in the nature of Dividends or other profit distributions from a juridical person will be exempt from Corporate Tax in the hands of the partnership if:
(a) it is received from a juridical person that is a Resident Person (without any conditions)43 or
(b) it is received from a Participating Interest in a foreign juridical person.44

36 Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
37 Article 22(2) read with Article 23(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
43 Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
44 Article 22(2) read with Article 23(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Item
Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership
Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership


Income in the nature of gains or losses on the transfer, sale or disposal of shares of a UAE or foreign juridical person will also pass through to the partners and will be dealt with for Corporate Tax in the hands of the individual partners. Such income will be exempt from Corporate Tax in the hands of the partners if received from a Participating Interest.38

If the partner is a natural person:

In case of partners that are natural persons, Dividends or other profit distributions (from a foreign juridical person) and gains or losses on the transfer, sale or disposal of shares (of a UAE or foreign juridical person) will be treated as Personal Investment income if the same is on their personal account and is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE, nor considered as a commercial business 39 and hence there is no need to consider whether the conditions of a Participation Exemption are met for the natural persons.40
Income in the nature of gains or losses on the transfer, sale or disposal of shares of a UAE or foreign juridical person will also be dealt with for Corporate Tax at the partnership level. Such income will be exempt from Corporate Tax in the hands of the partnership if received from a Participating Interest.45

38 Article 22(3) read with Article 23(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
39 Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
40 Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.
45 Article 22(3) read with Article 23(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Item
Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership
Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership


Where such receipts are received by the natural persons in the course of a Business Activity and not on their personal account, such receipts will not constitute Personal Investment income, and therefore, will need to be considered in the determination of Taxable Income of the natural persons. In which case they would need to consider whether the conditions of the Participation Exemption are met.41

Note, Dividends or other profit distributions from a Resident Person will remain exempt from Corporate Tax without any conditions.42



41 Article 22 read with Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.
42 Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


In this case, each partner is considered a Taxable Person conducting the Business of the partnership. Partners are treated as holding any assets that the partnership holds, allocated in accordance with their distributive share. 46 The Participation Exemption relief will be tested in the hands of the individual partners and not the Unincorporated Partnership since it is not a Taxable Person.

Accordingly, each partner is treated as holding 5% (1/3rd of 15%) of Company Z, thus meeting one of the requirements for the Participation Exemption (i.e. owning minimum 5% of the ownership interest in Company Z). If the other relevant Participation Exemption conditions are met, the partners can exclude their respective share of Dividends and capital gains or losses in respect of Company Z when determining their Taxable Income.47

Variation 2 - if Unincorporated Partnership is fiscally opaque (i.e. treated as a Taxable Person)

If the partners make an application to the FTA to treat the Unincorporated Partnership as a Taxable Person (and the same is approved), the Participation Exemption will be tested at the level of the Unincorporated Partnership and not the individual partners.

The partnership is treated as holding 15% of Company Z, thus meeting one of the requirements for the Participation Exemption (i.e. owning minimum 5% of the ownership interest in Company Z). If the other relevant Participation Exemption conditions are met, the partnership can exclude from its Taxable Income the Dividend received from Company Z and the gain or loss on disposal of shares of Company Z.48

5.4.2. Distribution of profits by Unincorporated Partnership to its partners

The Corporate Tax implications in relation to a share of profits received by the partners in an Unincorporated Partnership are as follows:

Item
Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership
Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership
Share of profits in the partnership
Income from the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership is subject to Corporate Tax in the
Any income received by a partner (natural or juridical person) will not be considered when


46 Articles 16(2)(a), 16(2)(c) and 16(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
47 Article 22(2) and Article 22(3) read with Article 23(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
48 Article 22(2) and Article 22(3) read with Article 23(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Item
Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership
Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership
received by
hands	of	the	partners	in
determining the Taxable Income
the partners
accordance with their distributive
in the hands of the partners, on

share taking into consideration
the basis that the income is

whether the partner is a natural
already taken into account in the

person or a juridical person.
determination	of	the	Taxable


Income of the fiscally opaque


Unincorporated Partnership.49

5.4.3. Transfer	of	partner's	distributive	share	in	an	Unincorporated Partnership

The Corporate Tax implications in relation to the gain or loss on transfer, sale or disposal of a partner's distributive share in the Unincorporated Partnership are as follows:

Item
Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership
Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership
Gain or loss
The partners are deemed to be
Any gain or loss on transfer, sale,
on transfer,
conducting the Business of the
or other disposal of a partner's
sale	or
Unincorporated Partnership. The
distributive	share	in	the
disposal	of
Unincorporated Partnership does
Unincorporated Partnership, or
partner's
not	have	a	separate	legal
part thereof, is not subject to
distributive
personality	distinct	from	its
Corporate Tax in the hands of the
share in the
partners. Hence any gain or loss
partners,	provided	that	the
partnership
on transfer, sale or other disposal
distributive share meets all the

of a partner's distributive share in
conditions of paragraphs (a) to

the Unincorporated Partnership
(e)	of	Article	23(2)	of	the

will	be	treated	as	Business
Corporate	Tax	Law	(the

income, subject to Corporate Tax
Participation Exemption). 50 The

in the hands of the partners.
FTA will apply the Participation


Exemption	even	though	the


Unincorporated Partnership itself


is not a juridical person.




49 Article 20(2)(i) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
50 Article 20(2)(i) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of
2023.


Example 11: Tax implications for partners of a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership

(A) In relation to profits distributed by the partnership to its partners:

Mr D and Ms E are partners in a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership in the UAE with an equal distributive share in the partnership.

If Mr D and Ms E receive any profit distribution from the fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership, the partners can exclude such income while determining their Taxable Income on the basis that such income has already been subject to Corporate Tax at the level of the partnership.51

(B) In relation to gains or losses on sale or transfer or disposal of distributive share in the partnership:

If Mr D and Ms E decide to sell or transfer or dispose of their distributive share in the Unincorporated Partnership, any gain or loss from such disposal is excluded while determining their Taxable Income provided that the distributive share in the Unincorporated Partnership meets all the conditions of paragraphs (a) to (e) of Article 23(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 52

5.5. Deductible expenditure

For the most part, the general Corporate Tax rules on deductible expenditure apply similarly to partners and Unincorporated Partnerships that are treated as Taxable Persons, respectively. Thus, this Section only considers in greater depth the provisions that relate specifically to Unincorporated Partnerships.

Notably, in relation to a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, the Taxable Income of a partner must take into account their distributive share of expenditure, and any expenditure incurred by the partner directly in conducting the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership.53






51 Article 20(2)(i) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
52 Article 20(2)(i) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of
2023.
53 Article 16(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.5.1. Expenditure incurred for Business purposes

The general rule is that expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of a Business is deductible, provided such expenditure is not capital in nature.54

If any expenditure is incurred for more than one purpose, i.e. it is not exclusively related to the Business, then only the portion that can be identified or reasonably allocated to the Business is allowed as a deduction for the purposes of calculating Taxable Income.55

There are also specific rules that restrict or disallow the deductibility of certain types of expenditure. Non-deductible expenditure relevant to both fiscally transparent and fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnerships, includes:
* Dividends, profit distributions or similar amounts paid to an owner of the Taxable Person;56 and
* amounts withdrawn by a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership.57

Accordingly, if any expenditure is incurred by an Unincorporated Partnership which constitutes a payment to or on behalf of a partner by an Unincorporated Partnership (i.e. not wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the Unincorporated Partnership's Business), the same will not be allowed as a deduction while determining the Taxable Income of:
* the fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership as it would be treated as Dividends, profit distributions or similar amounts paid to an owner (i.e. the partners) of the Taxable Person (i.e. the opaque Unincorporated Partnership);58 or
* the partners in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, as the same would be treated as amounts withdrawn by the partner from the Business.59



54 Article 28(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 55 Article 28(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 56 Article 33(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 57 Article 33(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.




5.5.2. Interest expenditure

Interest incurred for the purposes of a Taxable Person's Business is allowed as a deduction, subject to the General and Specific Interest Deduction Limitation Rules.61

5.5.2.1. General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule

The Corporate Tax Law refers to the amount of Interest that is deductible as Net Interest Expenditure. Net Interest Expenditure is the difference between the amount of Interest expenditure incurred and the Interest income derived during a Tax Period.62

When the Net Interest Expenditure exceeds AED 12 million in a Tax Period, the amount of deductible Net Interest Expenditure is the greater of 30% of adjusted EBITDA (earnings before the deduction of Interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) for a Tax Period, and the de minimis threshold of AED 12 million.63 This is known as the "General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule".

Any Net Interest Expenditure disallowed in a Tax Period by the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule can be carried forward and utilised in the subsequent 10 Tax Periods in the order in which the amount was incurred, subject to the same conditions.64






60 Article 28(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
61 Article 29 read with Articles 30 and 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.
62 Article 30(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
63 Article 8 of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
64 Article 30(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.


The applicability of the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule is tested in the hands of a Taxable Person. Whether the rules apply in the case of an Unincorporated Partnership will depend on its status for Corporate Tax purposes.

In the case of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, the partners are treated as the Taxable Persons in relation to the partnership Business. Hence the applicability of the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule will be tested in the hands of the individual partners.
* If the partner is a natural person, the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule will not apply, considering the specific exclusion for natural persons conducting Business in the UAE.65
* If the partner is a juridical person, the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule will apply (the 30% limitation will be applicable based on the adjusted EBITDA of the juridical person, not the partnership).

In the case of a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership that is treated as a Taxable Person in its own right, the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule will apply irrespective of who the partners are, i.e. natural persons or juridical persons. The 30% limitation will be applicable based on the adjusted EBITDA of the partnership.

5.5.2.2. Allocation of unutilised Net Interest Expenditure

Where a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership has unutilised Net Interest Expenditure that has been carried forward to subsequent Tax Periods, it can be utilised only by the Unincorporated Partnership and not the partners. If any partner exits the partnership, no portion of the carried forward Net Interest Expenditure relating to the partnership will be allocated to the exiting partner.

5.5.2.3. Specific Interest Deduction Limitation Rule

No deduction is allowed for Interest expenditure incurred on a loan obtained, directly or indirectly, from a Related Party in respect of any of the following transactions:66
* A Dividend or profit distribution to a Related Party.
* A redemption, repurchase, reduction or return of share capital to a Related Party.
* A capital contribution to a Related Party.
* The acquisition of an ownership interest in a Business that is, or becomes, a Related Party following the acquisition.




65 Article 30(6)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
66 Article 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.


The purpose of this provision is to prevent the Corporate Tax base from being eroded by transactions or arrangements between Taxable Persons and their Related Parties for the sole or main purpose of creating deductible Interest expenditure where the income derived from the relevant transaction or arrangement can benefit from an exemption from Corporate Tax.

Whilst generally these deductions are not allowable for Corporate Tax purposes, the deduction restriction does not apply if the Taxable Person can demonstrate that the main purpose of obtaining the loan and carrying out the transaction is not to gain a Corporate Tax advantage.67 This will be based on the specific facts and circumstances applicable to each transaction. However, if it can be demonstrated that the Related Party receiving the Interest is subject to Corporate Tax or a similar tax in a foreign country at a rate of at least 9% on the Interest income, then no Corporate Tax advantage will be deemed to have arisen.68

In the context of an Unincorporated Partnership, the applicability of the Specific Interest Deduction Limitation Rule will be tested in the hands of the relevant Taxable Person:
* In the case of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, the Specific Interest Deduction Limitation Rule will be tested in the hands of the partners.
* In the case of a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership, the Specific Interest Deduction Limitation Rule will be tested in the hands of the partnership.

Thus, if either an Unincorporated Partnership or its partners receives a loan from its Related Party, the deductibility of Interest on such loan will be determined based on the Special Interest Deduction Limitation rule.69

5.5.3. Interest paid to partners on their capital contribution

As noted above, the Net Interest Expenditure incurred for the purposes of a Taxable Person's Business is allowed as a deduction subject to the General and Specific Interest Deduction Limitation Rules.70

If an Unincorporated Partnership pays Interest to its partners on their capital contribution, the same shall be treated as an "allocation of income" or "profit distributions" to the partners for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law. The Corporate Tax implications for the Unincorporated Partnership and the partners in relation to Interest paid on capital contributions is as follows:


67 Article 31(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 68 Article 31(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 69 Article 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.
70 Articles 30 and 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.


Item
Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership
Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership
Interest paid to partners		on their	capital contribution by the Unincorporated Partnership
Implications	for	the Unincorporated Partnership:

Not applicable as the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership is not treated as a Taxable Person.

Implications for the partners:

Interest paid by a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership to its partners on their capital account is treated as an allocation of income to the partner. Therefore, it is not considered as deductible expenditure when calculating the Taxable Income of the partners in relation to the Unincorporated Partnership Business.71

Thus, Interest expenditure on a capital contribution must be disregarded by such partners in the determination of their Taxable Income to the extent of their distributive share.
Implications	for	the Unincorporated Partnership:

Interest paid by a fiscally opaque	Unincorporated Partnership to its partners on their capital contribution is treated as a profit distribution or benefit of a similar nature. Hence it will not be allowed as a deduction in determining the Taxable Income of the fiscally opaque	Unincorporated Partnership.72

Implications for the partners:

Interest on capital contribution received by partners in a fiscally opaque	Unincorporated Partnership will be excluded from the Taxable Income of the partners on the basis that such income has already been subject to Corporate Tax at the level of the partnership.73

If the partners receive Interest on their capital contribution, the same will be treated as Interest income i.e. taxable receipt, and must be considered in the



71 Article 16(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
72 Article 33(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
73 Article 20(2)(i) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of



determination of the Taxable Income of the partners.


5.5.4. Interest paid to partners on loan advanced by partners

As noted above, Interest expenditure incurred for the purposes of a Taxable Person's Business is allowed as a deduction, subject to the General and Specific Interest Deduction Limitation Rules.74

The Corporate Tax implications for the Unincorporated Partnership and the partners on Interest in relation to loans advanced by partners (i.e. not in relation to capital contributions) are as follows:

Item
Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership
Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership
Interest paid to partners	on loans advanced	by partners
Implication	for	the Unincorporated Partnership:

Not applicable as the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership is not treated as a Taxable Person.

Implication for the partners:

If the Unincorporated Partnership obtains a loan from any of the partners wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the Business, and Interest paid on such loans is at arm's length, the Interest expenditure will be deductible while determining the Taxable Income of the partners to the extent of their distributive share.

For the partner (or partners) receiving such interest income, it must be taken into account
Implication	for	the Unincorporated Partnership:

Interest paid by a fiscally opaque	Unincorporated Partnership to its partners on loans advanced by the partners will be deductible while determining the Taxable Income of the partnership if the Interest paid on the loans was incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the Business of the partnership and is at arm's length.

Implication for the partners:

Interest income received by the partners on loans advanced to the partnership will be Taxable Income in the hands of the partners and will be taken into account while determining the Taxable Income of the partners.

74 Article 28 read with Articles 30 and 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.



when determining the Taxable Income of the partner.


Example 13: Interest paid to a partner on loan from the partner

Mr A, Mr B and Mr C are partners in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership in the UAE. Each partner contributes equally towards their capital contribution. The partnership deed specifies that each partner will be eligible for interest at 4% on their respective capital contribution.

The partnership decides to expand its Business. However, it is unable to obtain a loan from the bank. Mr A agrees to lend money to the partnership for the expansion at market interest rates (i.e. as per arm's length standard) in a personal capacity. No other partner makes a loan to the partnership.

Interest on capital contribution:
As the payment of the Interest is treated as an allocation of income, each partner will be subject to Corporate Tax on any Interest received from the partnership in respect of its capital contribution. 75 Such interest expenditure would not be deductible in the determination of the Taxable Income of the respective partners.

Interest on loan advanced by Mr A:
Interest received by Mr A from the partnership in respect of the loan advanced by Mr A would be included in the total income of Mr A when determining the Taxable Income of Mr A. However, such Interest expenditure should be deductible in the determination of Taxable Income for all the partners, including Mr A, as per their respective distributive share.

Note that for the purposes of this example, it is assumed that Mr A's total Turnover from Business exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year. Mr A is, therefore, subject to Corporate Tax.76

5.5.5. Interest expenditure incurred by partners to fund capital contributions

If a partner takes a loan in their individual capacity to fund their capital contributions in the Unincorporated Partnership Business and incurs Interest expenditure on the loan, such Interest expenditure will be deductible while determining the Taxable Income of the partner subject to the General and Special Interest Deduction Limitation Rules77


75 Article 16(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
76 Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
77 Article 16(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Articles 29, 30 and 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.


and the specific situation of the partner (natural person or juridical person)(refer Section 5.5.2).

5.5.6. Salary paid to partners in an Unincorporated Partnership

Partners normally receive a share of profit from the partnership. However, a partnership can also pay a salary to its partners if this is specifically provided for in the partnership deed or agreement.

The Corporate Tax implications for the Unincorporated Partnership and the partners in cases where the partnership decides to pay a salary to its partners are discussed below. Note this Section is relevant only where the partners are natural persons as a salary cannot be paid to a partner that is a juridical person.

Item
Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership
Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership
Salary paid to partners by the Unincorporated Partnership
Implications	for	the Unincorporated Partnership:

Not applicable as the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership is not treated as a Taxable Person.

Implication for the partners that are natural persons:

The partners of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership are treated as Taxable Persons and subject to Corporate Tax.
Implications	for	the Unincorporated Partnership:

Where in a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership salary is paid to a partner, the same will be treated as profit distributions or benefits of a similar nature paid to the owner,
i.e. the partner (natural person). Hence such salary will be non- deductible for Corporate Tax purposes for the partnership.79

Implications for the partner that is a natural person:

Any salary received by the partners (natural persons) will be treated as an amount withdrawn from the Business and hence the same will be non- deductible while determining
A salary received by the relevant partner will be excluded from the Taxable Income of such partner on basis that such income has already


79 Article 33(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.



the	Taxable	Income	of	the partners.78
been subject to Corporate Tax at the level of the partnership.80

The partner receiving such amount must include such amount in the determination of its Taxable Income.



Example 14: Treatment of salary received by natural persons in fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership

Mr A and Mr B are partners in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership with equal distributive shares in the Unincorporated Partnership.

During a Tax Period, the income and expenditure of the Unincorporated Partnership is AED 75,000,000 and AED 65,000,000, respectively. The expenditure includes salary paid to Mr A of AED 10,000,000 and to Mr B of AED 15,000,000 in the Tax Period.

The Unincorporated Partnership is fiscally transparent and hence the partners will be subject to Corporate Tax on their distributive share of income and expenditure. However, the salaries of the partners will not be considered as deductible expenditure while determining the Taxable Income of the partners as the same will be treated as an amount withdrawn from the Business.81

Taxable Income of Mr A and Mr B is calculated as follows:


Particulars
Mr A (amounts in AED)
Mr B (amounts in AED)


Distributive share of income
37,500,000
37,500,000


Less: Distributive share of expenditure
32,500,000
32,500,000


Accounting Income
5,000,000
5,000,000


Add: non-deductible expenditure i.e. salary drawn by partners
10,000,000
15,000,000


Taxable Income of the partners
15,000,000
20,000,000



78 Article 33(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
80 Article 20(2)(i) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(1) of the Ministerial Decision No. 134 of the 2023.
81 Article 33(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.5.7. Payment to partners for services provided to an Unincorporated Partnership

During the course of conducting Business, partners may render services to the Unincorporated Partnership (other than as an employee). The Corporate Tax implications for the Unincorporated Partnership and the partners in relation to the provision of services are as follows:

Item
Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership
Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership
Payment to partners for provision of services
Implications	for	the Unincorporated		Partnership (expenditure):

Not applicable as the fiscally transparent	Unincorporated Partnership is not treated as a Taxable Person.

Implication for the partners (expenditure):

If a partner renders services to the Unincorporated Partnership not in their capacity as a partner (or employee), but as a service provider, where such services are wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the Business, and payment for such services are at arm's length, the payment for services will be deductible while determining the Taxable Income of the partners to the extent of their distributive share.
Implications for the partnership (expenditure):

If a partner renders certain services to a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership not in their capacity as a partner (or employee), but as a service provider, payment for such services should be allowed as a deduction in determining the Taxable Income of the Unincorporated Partnership, provided that payment meets the arm's length standard and is incurred wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership.

Implications for the partner (income) in relation to both transparent and opaque Unincorporated Partnerships:

Any income received by a partner for the services rendered will be taken into account in that partner's Taxable Income, separate and in addition to the partner's income from the partnership and accordingly will be included in determining that partner's Taxable Income.





5.5.8. Reimbursements of expenditure to partners

Partners may incur certain expenditure on behalf of the Unincorporated Partnership. Such expenses may then be reimbursed by the Unincorporated Partnership in whole or in part.

The Corporate Tax implications for the Unincorporated Partnership and the partners on such reimbursement of Business expenditure are as follows:





82 Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
83 Article 1 and Article 2(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.


Item
Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership
Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership
Reimbursement of expenditure to partners
Implications for the partnership:

Not applicable as the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership is not a Taxable Person and is not subject to Corporate Tax.

Implications for the partner:
If a partner directly incurs expenditure which is wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the Business of the fiscally	transparent Unincorporated Partnership, such expenditure would be treated as follows:
Implications for the partnership:

If a partner directly incurs expenditure, which is wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the Business of the fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership, and if the partnership reimburses the relevant amount to the partner then the partnership can claim the reimbursement as a deduction when determining the Taxable Income of the Unincorporated Partnership subject to the general deductibility rules.

Where such expenditure is reimbursed to the partner in the accounts of the Unincorporated Partnership, such reimbursed cost would be deductible by the partners in proportion to their distributive share.84
Implications for the partner: The partner would similarly set- off the expenditure incurred against	the	reimbursement received in the determination of its	own			Taxable	Income separate		from		that	of	the
partnership, if applicable.

For the partner that is being reimbursed, the amount of income received from the fiscally	transparent Unincorporated Partnership would be set-off against the expenditure incurred by the relevant partner based on the relevant Accounting Standards applied by the partner. Therefore, in the case of the reimbursement, such partner is

In a case where a partner is incurring an expenditure which is wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership but the partner is not reimbursed (or only partially reimbursed), then the partner cannot claim a deduction of such expenditure against any other taxable Business it is conducting,


84 Article 16(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.



effectively	entitled	to	the
because	it	is	not	incurred

deduction of such expenditure
wholly and exclusively for the

to	the	extent	of	the
purposes of such other taxable

reimbursement.
Business. The fiscally opaque


Unincorporated Partnership is


considered	as	a	separate


Taxable Person.

5.6. Tax Loss relief and limitation on Tax Loss carry forward

The Corporate Tax Law allows a Taxable Person to reduce its Taxable Income by offsetting part of the Tax Loss accumulated in previous years. However, a Taxable Person cannot claim Tax Loss relief for:85
* Losses incurred before the date of commencement of Corporate Tax,
* Losses incurred before a Person becomes a Taxable Person, and
* Losses incurred from an asset or activity that generates income which is exempt from Corporate Tax.

A Taxable Person can use a Tax Loss up to an amount of 75% of the Taxable Income (before any Tax Loss relief) for the relevant Tax Period.86 An unutilised Tax Loss can be carried forward and utilised in subsequent Tax Periods indefinitely subject to the fulfilment of one of the following conditions:87
(a) Continuity of ownership:88 At least 50% of the owners of the Taxable Person continue to be the same from the beginning of the Tax Period in which the Tax Loss is incurred to the end of the Tax Period in which such Tax Loss or part thereof is offset against Taxable Income of that period.
(b) Continuity of Business:89 Where there has been a change of more than 50% in the ownership (i.e. the above condition (a) is not met) the Tax Loss can still be carried forward if the Taxable Person continues to conduct the same or a similar Business following the change in ownership.

Thus, even if the continuity of ownership test is not satisfied, the Tax Loss can be carried forward if the Taxable Person continues to carry on the same or similar Business.
In the context of an Unincorporated Partnership, the limitation on carry forward of a Tax Loss would only be a relevant consideration if it was fiscally opaque and at least


85 Article 37(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
86 Article 37(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
87 Article 37(4) read with Article 39 of the Corporate Tax Law.
88 Article 39(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
89 Article 39(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


50% of the ownership in the Unincorporated Partnership, as represented by the partners' distributive shares, did not remain the same.

Further, where a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership has incurred a Tax Loss which is carried forward to subsequent Tax Periods,90 that Tax Loss can only be utilised to offset the Taxable Income of the fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership and not the Taxable Income of the partners. If any partner exits the partnership, no portion of the Tax Loss relating to the partnership will be allocated to the exiting partner.


5.7. Foreign Tax Credit

If the Unincorporated Partnership has suffered any foreign tax, a credit may be available against the Corporate Tax Payable by the Unincorporated Partnership where it is treated as a Taxable Person, subject to the facts and circumstances. Where it is fiscally transparent, the Foreign Tax Credit is allocated among the partners in accordance with their distributive share in the Unincorporated Partnership.91




90 Article 39 of the Corporate Tax Law.
91 Article 16(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 17: Foreign Tax Credit in case of Unincorporated Partnership

Company A and Company B are partners in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership. Both companies are incorporated in and are residents of the UAE with a distributive share of 40% and 60%, respectively.

During the relevant Tax Period, net income of the Unincorporated Partnership is AED 5 million out of which foreign source income is AED 2 million arising from Country X. The foreign tax paid in Country X in respect of this foreign source income was the equivalent of AED 200,000.

The Corporate Tax Payable by the partners Company A and Company B on the income of the Unincorporated Partnership shall be as follows. Note that neither partner is eligible for Small Business Relief.


Item
Company A (40%)
Company B (60%)



Amounts in AED


Taxable Income/Distributive share of net income (assuming there are no other adjustments)

2,000,000

3,000,000



Corporate Tax due on Taxable Income (A)
146,250
[(2,000,000- 375,000)*9%]
236,250
[(3,000,000- 375,000)*9%]


Less: Foreign Tax Credit (B) being the lower of the following:
58,500
94,500


The actual amount of foreign tax paid in the foreign jurisdiction (allocated as per distributive share)

80,000

120,000


The amount of the Corporate Tax due on the foreign source income:
Total Corporate Tax due * allocable foreign source income / allocable total Taxable Income
58,500
[146,250	*
800,000	/
2,000,000]
94,500
[236,250	*
1,200,000	/
3,000,000]


Corporate Tax Payable [(A) - (B)]
87,750
141,750



6. Application to be treated as Taxable Person

6.1. Application and timing of change in status to Taxable Person

The partners of an Unincorporated Partnership can file an application with the FTA for the Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a Taxable Person in its own right.92 This is in contrast to the default position where the Unincorporated Partnership is treated as fiscally transparent, with the partners being subject to Corporate Tax on their distributive share.

Where the application is approved, the Unincorporated Partnership will be treated as a Taxable Person from: 93
* the beginning of the Tax Period during which the application was filed by the partners,
* the beginning of a future Tax Period, or
* any other date determined by the FTA.

6.2. Other Corporate Tax consequences of being treated as a Taxable Person

Upon the change in the status of an Unincorporated Partnership from fiscally transparent to fiscally opaque due to a successful application,94 any gain or loss on a transfer may be covered under Business Restructuring Relief.95 This is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions:96
* The transfer is done in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE,
* The partners and the partnership are subject to UAE Corporate Tax,
* None of the partners or the partnership itself is an Exempt Person,
* None of the partners or the partnership itself is a Qualifying Free Zone Person,
* The partners and the partnership have the same Financial Year,
* The partners and the partnership prepare their Financial Statements using the same Accounting Standards, and
* The transfer is undertaken for valid commercial or other non-fiscal reasons which reflect economic reality.

When a successful application results in the Unincorporated Partnership becoming a Taxable Person, i.e. fiscally opaque, this is treated for Corporate Tax purposes as each partner transferring their portion of the Unincorporated Partnership's assets and

92 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
93 Article 16(8) and 16(10) of the Corporate Tax Law.
94 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
95 Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 7 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
96 Article 27(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


liabilities to the Unincorporated Partnership. However, the application does not trigger a legal transfer of assets and liabilities. In such circumstances, the no gain or loss treatment under Business Restructuring Relief can be available, even if the Unincorporated Partnership doesn't legally issue a consideration. In addition, the no gain or loss treatment will be available even if the partners of the Unincorporated Partnership are not Taxable Persons.97

6.3. Whether an application to be treated as a Taxable Person can be revoked

An application by the partners for the Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a Taxable Person, once approved by the FTA, is irrevocable.98 In other words, once an Unincorporated Partnership is treated as a Taxable Person, it will continue to be treated as such, until dissolved/liquidated. However, the application can be revoked under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to the approval by the FTA.99

6.4. Procedural aspects

Once the FTA approves the application for an Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a Taxable Person, the Unincorporated Partnership is required to notify the FTA within 20 business days from the time any partner joins or leaves the Unincorporated Partnership.100



97 Article 27(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 7 of the Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
98 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023.
99 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023.
100 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023.




6.5. Implications of partners following different methods of accounting

If partners in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership follow different methods of accounting, i.e. accrual basis versus cash basis, and make an application for the Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a Taxable Person, i.e. fiscally opaque, the partners should continue to apply their respective accounting methods in relation to transactions which occurred during the periods when the partnership was fiscally transparent. This is in order to prevent cases of non-taxation.

For example, if a partner follows the Cash Basis of Accounting it would not have included in its Taxable Income any income or expenditure accrued in a prior Tax Period when the Unincorporated Partnership was treated as fiscally transparent. When this is received or paid in a future Tax Period, when the Unincorporated Partnership is treated as fiscally opaque, it should be included in the Taxable Income of that partner (following Cash Basis of Accounting) at the time of receipt/payment. In other words, that partner (following Cash Basis of Accounting) should apply the method of accounting consistently.



101 Article 2 of FTA Decision No. 16 of 2023.


Facts:
* Both partners and the partnership apply the Gregorian calendar year as their Tax Period.
* Company P applies the Accrual Basis of Accounting.
* Ms Q applies the Cash Basis of Accounting (as her Turnover does not exceed AED 3 million) but has not elected for Small Business Relief.
* The Unincorporated Partnership applies the Accrual Basis of Accounting.

Chronology of events:
* On 1 December 2024, the partnership earned income of AED 10 million from sale of goods (assuming no offsetting costs/expenditure).
* On 15 December 2024, the FTA approved the partnership to be treated as a Taxable Person from 1 January 2025 onwards.
* On 25 January 2025, payment was received for the sale of the goods.

The Corporate Tax implications in the hands of Company P, Ms Q and the Unincorporated Partnership for the 2024 Tax Period are as follows (assuming there is no other income):
* The Unincorporated Partnership is fiscally transparent. Hence it is not treated as a Taxable Person for Corporate Tax purposes. The partners (Company P and Ms Q) will be treated as Taxable Persons, individually, in relation to their respective distributive shares in the partnership.
* Company P's distributive share of income is AED 8 million (i.e. 80% of AED 10 million). As Company P applies the Accrual Basis of Accounting, AED 8 million is accrued to Company P (even though payment is not received) and, hence, the same will be subject to Corporate Tax for the 2024 Tax Period.
* Ms Q's distributive share of income is AED 2 million (i.e. 20% of AED 10 million). However, as Ms Q applies the Cash Basis of Accounting, in the absence of the actual receipt of income during the 2024 Tax Period, no income is recognised by Ms Q in the 2024 Tax Period. Hence, she will not be subject to Corporate Tax on the AED 2 million in the same Tax Period.

The Corporate Tax implications in the hands of Company P, Ms Q and the Unincorporated Partnership for the 2025 Tax Period are as follows (assuming there is no other income):
* For the 2025 Tax Period the partnership is treated as a Taxable Person, i.e. when it is fiscally opaque.
* Company P will not be subject to Corporate Tax in relation to the partnership Business. It will continue to remain a Taxable Person in relation to any Business income other than the partnership Business.
* However, Ms Q, though not subject to Corporate Tax in relation to the partnership Business, will be required  to recognise the AED 2 million for





7. Corporate Tax compliance obligations

7.1. Corporate Tax registration

7.1.1. Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership

Individual partners of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership must determine their Corporate Tax obligations in relation to their individual distributive share in the Unincorporated Partnership. Whether a partner is required to register for Corporate Tax purposes and file a Tax Return will depend on their individual circumstances.

If a partner is a juridical person, it will already be registered for Corporate Tax (and will not be required to obtain a separate/additional Tax Registration for Corporate Tax purposes by virtue of being a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership).

If a partner is a natural person, they will be required to register for Corporate Tax only if their total Turnover (i.e. the gross amount of income before adjusting any expenditure) from all their Business or Business Activities conducted in the UAE exceeds the threshold of AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year.102

In addition to the above, the partners of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership are required to appoint one of the partners as an authorised partner to act on behalf of all the partners in any tax obligations and procedures. The authorised partner is required to submit an application to the FTA for registration of the Unincorporated Partnership for Corporate Tax purposes and obtain a Tax Registration Number, which will not be active. Obtaining the Tax Registration Number does not make the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership a Taxable Person subject to Corporate Tax, but is a compliance requirement. 103

7.1.2. Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership

The partners of an Unincorporated Partnership can make an application to the FTA to treat the Unincorporated Partnership as a Taxable Person, i.e. fiscally opaque. If the application is approved, the Unincorporated Partnership will be subject to Corporate Tax as a Taxable Person and its Tax Registration Number will be changed from an inactive number to an active number.





102 Article 11(6) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
103 Article 51(2) of the Corporate Tax Law read with FTA Decision No. 16 of 2023.


Pursuant to the above, the partners may file a deregistration application (if they are already registered for Corporate Tax) provided they do not conduct any other Business or do not have any other Taxable Income which is subject to Corporate Tax.

7.2. Tax Returns

7.2.1. Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership

If an Unincorporated Partnership is treated as fiscally transparent, it is not required to file a Tax Return. The partners of the Unincorporated Partnership are required to file their individual Tax Return for their distributive share in the Unincorporated Partnership by the normal deadline of 9 months from the end of the relevant Tax Period.

However, the partners of the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership must appoint one of the partners as an authorised partner to act on behalf of all partners in relation to any tax obligations and procedures.104

As indicated above, the authorised partner must apply to the FTA to register the Unincorporated Partnership for Corporate Tax purposes and obtain a Tax Registration Number. The authorised partner must submit an annual declaration on behalf of all the partners within 9 months from the end of the relevant Financial Year of the Unincorporated Partnership or part thereof. The annual declaration should include details regarding all the data necessary to determine the Taxable Income of the partners in the Unincorporated Partnership, including but not limited to, total assets and liabilities, the income and expenses of the Unincorporated Partnership and the distributive share of each partner.105

7.2.2. Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership

If an Unincorporated Partnership is treated as a Taxable Person, i.e. fiscally opaque, it is required to file its Tax Return by the normal deadline of 9 months from the end of the relevant Tax Period.

7.3. Tax Periods

A Tax Period of a Taxable Person is the period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed. This is the Gregorian calendar year for a natural person, or the 12-month period for which it prepares Financial Statements for a juridical person.





104 Article 51(2) of the Corporate Tax Law read with FTA Decision No. 16 of 2023.


7.3.1. Fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership

If the Unincorporated Partnership is treated as fiscally transparent, the partners are the Taxable Persons who are required to file a Tax Return based on their own Tax Period. The authorised partner of the Unincorporated Partnership is required to file a declaration with the FTA pertaining to the total assets and liabilities, the income and expenses of the Unincorporated Partnership and the distributive share of each partner, within 9 months from the end of the relevant Financial Year of the Unincorporated Partnership or part thereof.106

7.3.2. Fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership

If the Unincorporated Partnership is treated as a Taxable Person, i.e. fiscally opaque, it is required to file its Tax Return based on the period for which it prepares Financial Statements, in the same way as any other Taxable Person.

Example 20: Different Tax Period followed by Unincorporated Partnership and its Partners

Mr P (a natural person residing in the UAE) and Company Q (a company incorporated in and a tax resident of the UAE) are partners in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership established on 1 January 2025 to execute construction projects in the UAE. The distributive share of the partners is 70% and 30%, respectively.

* Mr P and the partnership follow the Gregorian calendar year as their Tax Period.
* Company Q follows a Tax Period from 1 April to 31 March.
* Both Mr P and Company Q apply the Accrual Basis of Accounting.

The partnership Business earned income of AED 20 million during the 2025 Gregorian calendar year. Assume there are no offsetting costs and the income accrued equally each month.

Each partner's distributive share of income is as follows:
* For Mr P: AED 14 million (i.e. 70% of AED 20 million)
* For Company Q: AED 6 million (i.e. 30% of AED 20 million)

Corporate Tax implications for Mr P:
Since the partnership and Mr P follow the same Tax Period, the entire AED 14 million will accrue to Mr P during the 2025 Gregorian calendar year and will be subject to Corporate Tax.





7.4. Financial Statements

The FTA can request any Taxable Person to submit the Financial Statements used to determine the Taxable Income for a particular Tax Period in the form and manner and within the timeline prescribed by the FTA.107
Where the partners of an Unincorporated Partnership have made an application to the FTA to treat the partnership as a Taxable Person, the FTA can request Financial Statements directly from the Unincorporated Partnership.108

In the case of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, the FTA can request the authorised partner to provide Financial Statements showing the total assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of the Unincorporated Partnership along with each partner's distributive share in the Unincorporated Partnership's income, expenses, assets and liabilities.109

If the Revenue of a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership exceeds AED 50 million during a Tax Period, then the partnership is required to prepare and maintain audited Financial Statements.110 In the case of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, the threshold of AED 50 million applies at the level of each partner, meaning the partner would be responsible for having their accounts audited if they exceed the threshold of AED 50 million.











107 Article 54(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
108 Article 54(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
109 As per Article 54(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
110 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023.


8. Tax treatment of Foreign Partnerships

A Foreign Partnership is a relationship established by contract between two or more Persons, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the laws of a foreign jurisdiction.111

8.1. Conditions to be treated as an Unincorporated Partnership

A Foreign Partnership is treated as a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law provided it satisfies all of the following conditions:112

a) The Foreign Partnership is not subject to tax under the laws of the foreign jurisdiction where it is established.113

If the foreign jurisdiction has a mixed approach where it considers the Foreign Partnership as fiscally transparent for certain tax purposes and fiscally opaque for other tax purposes, then that Foreign Partnership will not satisfy this condition.

If the Foreign Partnership is established in a foreign jurisdiction that does not have tax legislation that addresses the tax treatment of partnerships, then that Foreign Partnership will be deemed to have met this condition.

b) Each partner in the Foreign Partnership is individually subject to tax on their distributive share of any income of the Foreign Partnership as and when the income is received by or accrued to the Foreign Partnership.114 Each partner in the Foreign Partnership will be considered to be subject to tax if they would be subject to tax on their distributive share of any income in the Foreign Partnership in the jurisdiction in which the partner is a tax resident.115

If the Partners are tax resident in a foreign jurisdiction that does not have a tax legislation or tax legislation for individuals, then this condition will be deemed to have been satisfied.






111 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
112 Article 16(7) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 4 of the Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023.
113 Article 16(7)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
114 Article 16(7)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
115 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023.


c) The Foreign Partnership submits an annual declaration to the FTA to confirm that it has met the conditions (a) and (b) listed above.116 The FTA will prescribe the form and manner and timeline of the declaration.

d) There are adequate arrangements for cooperation between the UAE and the foreign jurisdiction under whose applicable laws the Foreign Partnership is established, for the purpose of sharing tax information of the partners in the Foreign Partnership.117 Examples of such arrangements are an Agreement with the UAE on Exchange of Information on Tax Matters, the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters established by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) or a Double Taxation Agreement with the UAE with Exchange of Information provisions.

8.2. Foreign Partnership not treated as an Unincorporated Partnership

If a Foreign Partnership does not meet the conditions specified in Section 8.2, then it will be regarded as a fiscally opaque entity for Corporate Tax purposes and will be subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE on the same basis as a Non-Resident Taxable Person if it has a Permanent Establishment or nexus in the UAE.118



























116 Article 16(7)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 4(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023.
117 Article 16(7)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 4(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 127 of
2023.
118 Article 11(4) read with Article 12(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


9. Interaction with Free Zone Persons

9.1. Can a partnership be a Free Zone Person?

A Free Zone Person is a juridical person incorporated, established or otherwise registered under the rules and regulations of a Free Zone, including a branch of a foreign or a UAE juridical person registered in a Free Zone.119

Thus, incorporated partnerships which are treated as juridical persons as per the respective Free Zone laws could be treated as a Free Zone Person.

An Unincorporated Partnership that is not a juridical person cannot be a Free Zone Person. An Unincorporated Partnership that is treated as a Taxable Person (i.e. fiscally opaque) is not a juridical person. 120 Accordingly, such a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership will not be covered under the definition of a Free Zone Person, even if all the partners of the fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership are juridical persons.

9.2. Can a Free Zone Person be a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership?

A partner in an Unincorporated Partnership can be either a natural or juridical person. As discussed above, a Free Zone Person is a juridical person and thus can be a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership.

9.3. Corporate Tax implications where a Free Zone Person is a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership

If the Unincorporated Partnership is fiscally transparent, the Free Zone partner would have to evaluate how it is subject to Corporate Tax on its distributive share from the Unincorporated Partnership depending on whether it is a Qualifying Free Zone Person earning Qualifying Income.121

If the Unincorporated Partnership is treated as a Taxable Person (i.e. fiscally opaque), the partnership itself would be subject to Corporate Tax. The tax treatment for a Free Zone Person, that is a partner in a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership, is the same as for any other type of partner. The Free Zone partner can exclude, from its own Taxable Income, its distributive share of income in the Unincorporated


119 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
120 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
121 Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law read with Cabinet Decision No. 100 of 2023 and Ministerial Decision No. 265 of 2023.


Partnership, to the extent that the fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership has recognised such income as Taxable Income.122

9.4. Branch of Unincorporated Partnership in a Free Zone

As noted above, a Free Zone Person is a juridical person incorporated, established or otherwise registered under the rules and regulations of a Free Zone, including a branch of a foreign or a UAE juridical person registered in a Free Zone.

Since an Unincorporated Partnership (whether fiscally transparent or opaque) is not a juridical person, even if it sets up a branch in the Free Zone, it will not be eligible to benefit from the Free Zone Corporate Tax regime.








































122 Article 20(2)(i) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


10. Interplay with Small Business Relief

Small Business Relief is a Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period. A Taxable Person that is a Resident Person and whose Revenue in the current and previous Tax Periods does not exceed AED 3 million can claim Small Business Relief.123

In the case of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, each partner will need to determine whether they are a Taxable Person (that is a Resident Person) for Corporate Tax purposes who is subject to Corporate Tax. Hence eligibility for Small Business Relief is evaluated at the level of the individual partners.

Where a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership is treated as a Taxable Person that is a Resident Person, the eligibility for Small Business Relief is determined at the level of the Unincorporated Partnership, rather than at the individual partner level.





































123 Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.


11. Unincorporated Partnership and Business events

11.1. Overview and general principles

An Unincorporated Partnership is a Business relationship established by contract between two or more persons who jointly conduct the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership and agree to share the assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of the Unincorporated Partnership in proportion to their distributive share in that Unincorporated Partnership.124

11.2. A partner's distributive share

A partner's distributive share is a representation of each partner's proportionate rights and obligations in respect of the assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of the Unincorporated Partnership.125 On the basis that an Unincorporated Partnership is a contract between the partners, the contract creates rights and obligations for each partner. The rights are defined by reference to the individual partner's distributive share. On establishment of the Unincorporated Partnership, typically each partner will contribute assets or capital to the partnership and effectively is contributing an undivided share of the asset or capital to the other partner(s). Such undivided share attributable to each partner of the assets, liabilities, income and expenditure is represented by the partner's distributive share. As such, this distributive share constitutes an asset in the hands of a partner for the purposes of Corporate Tax. Therefore, any change in the distributive share of a partner may result in a taxable event for the relevant partner. This is the case whether the Unincorporated Partnership is fiscally transparent or fiscally opaque.

Based on the above, there are Business events in relation to Unincorporated Partnerships which may have Corporate Tax implications for the partners. Examples of these Business events and the tax implications have been considered in the subsequent Sections.

11.3. Unincorporated Partnerships and Business events

11.3.1. A change in a partner's distributive share

The following situations may give rise to a change in a partner's distributive share:
* a partner joining an Unincorporated Partnership,
* a partner leaving an Unincorporated Partnership, and
* changes in distributive share of partners (without entry or exit of a partner).

124 Article 16(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
125 Article 16(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


For the above situations, the transfer, sale or disposal of a distributive share may give rise to gains or losses and may be regarded as a taxable event.

11.3.2. Disposal of distributive share

Where a partner disposes of their distributive share, either by dilution through part disposal when a new partner joins, or a disposal in full when a partner leaves a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, this will constitute a transfer of an asset by the partner, being their distributive share of the partnership. In such circumstances, having regard to the treatment of the transaction for accounting purposes under IFRS, the partner will need to consider the proceeds received and the original expenditure incurred to acquire the partner's distributive share. The gain or loss made on the disposal of the partner's distributive share will be considered for the determination of the partner's Taxable Income, if the partner is a Taxable Person. The gain or loss is the difference between the proceeds received and the original cost incurred in acquiring the distributive share in the partnership.

However, for a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership, any gains or losses on the transfer, sale, or other disposal of the distributive share in the Unincorporated Partnership, or part thereof, would not be subject to Corporate Tax in the hands of the partners provided that the ownership interest meets all the conditions of paragraphs
(a) to (e) of Article 23(2) of the Corporate Tax Law on Participation Exemption.126

11.3.3. Consideration for transfer or sale

For a partner joining or leaving an Unincorporated Partnership, or a change in distributive share, the partners are Related Parties, in which case any consideration exchanged for the partners' distributive share must meet the arm's length standard.127 Where the transfer of the Unincorporated Partnership is to a Taxable Person who is not a Related Party, the transfer is considered to be at arm's length.

Typically, the consideration for transfer or sale or disposal of a distributive share in an Unincorporated Partnership is a commercial matter that may be influenced by factors including the Market Value of the Unincorporated Partnership's Business.

A lack of compensation is not necessarily an indicator of a non-arm's length transaction, provided the new partner is not a Related Party or Connected Person prior to joining the partnership. There could be scenarios where the transfer of a partner's distributive share to Related Parties or Connected Persons may not give rise to gains or losses, even if no consideration is paid (i.e. a gift or inheritance). This can happen

126 Article 20(2)(i) read with Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
127 Article 34(1) and Article 35(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.


if the transfer of the partner's distributive share to Related Parties or Connected Persons is structured as a bona fide transaction or arrangement based on the arm's length standard.128

11.3.4. Cost of acquisition of distributive share

The cost of acquisition of a distributive share is generally the expenditure incurred by the partner in acquiring their distributive share, which can be incurred in cash or in- kind. This cost is generally recorded in the balance sheet of the accounts for each partner in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards, being IFRS or IFRS for SME's.

The following examples illustrate situations where there is a change in the distributive share of the Unincorporated Partnership.

Example 21: A new partner joining an Unincorporated Partnership

Company A and Company B are companies incorporated in and tax residents of the UAE. They form a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership with a distributive share of 60% and 40%, respectively.

After two years, Company A and Company B agree to collaborate with Company C (a company incorporated in and a tax resident of the UAE) to continue the Business of the partnership jointly.

Company C is to have a distributive share of 20% in the partnership for which both Company A and Company B agree to sacrifice part of their existing distributive share. The new distributive share in the partnership is 48%, 32% and 20% as between Company A, Company B and Company C, respectively.

Company C agrees to make a capital contribution of AED 10 million for a 20% distributive share in the partnership. The capital contribution made by Company C will be split between Company A and Company B in their original distributive share of 60% and 40% i.e. Company A will receive AED 6 million and Company B will receive AED 4 million.

In addition to the above, and based on the Market Value of the partnership Business, Company C also agrees to pay a further AED 6 million to Company A and AED 4 million to Company B to compensate them for sacrificing their future share of the profit of the partnership. Therefore, the total amounts received by Company A and B are AED 12 million and AED 8 million, respectively.


128 Articles 34 and 35 of Corporate Tax Law.



The above change in the distributive share of the partnership due to the introduction of Company C is a disposal by Company A and Company B of part of their distributive share in the partnership, i.e. the distributive share of Company A and Company B has reduced from 60% to 48 % and 40% to 32%, respectively.

To calculate the gains or losses on the disposal of their distributive share for Company A (12%) and Company B (8%) with respect to the above, it is relevant to determine the cost incurred by Company A and Company B to acquire their respective distributive share in the Unincorporated Partnership.

The assets reflected at historical cost, which were contributed by the two partners upon establishment of the Unincorporated Partnership, in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards was AED 50 million, which was contributed as follows:
* Company A - AED 30 million (60% of AED 50 million)
* Company B - AED 20 million (40% of AED 50 million)



Particulars
For Company A
For Company B

Total before disposal
Disposal
Total before disposal
Disposal
% of distributive share
60%
12%
40%
8%
Cost
AED 30 million
AED 6 million
AED 20 million
AED 4 million

The gains or losses are determined as follows:


Particulars
For Company A
For Company B
Received from Company C
AED 12 million
AED 8 million
Less: cost
(AED 6 million)
(AED 4 million)
Equals: Gain on disposal of distributive share
AED 6 million
AED 4 million

The gains on disposal of the distributive share will be subject to Corporate Tax in the hands of Company A and Company B. The same treatment would have applied if the partners were natural persons.




Example 22: Existing partner leaves/retires from the Unincorporated Partnership

Mr M, Mr N and Mr O (all are natural persons residing in the UAE), are partners in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership with equal distributive shares. The total partnership assets at the time of the inception of the partnership are AED 30 million contributed equally (i.e. an AED 10 million contribution by each partner). The Unincorporated Partnership is set up on 1 January 2024.

After several years of running the partnership, Mr M retired from the partnership and Mr N and Mr O decided to carry on the Business thereafter. The partners decide to revalue the partnership assets and pay out Mr M's distributive share in the partnership. The Market Value of partnership assets at the time of Mr M's retirement is AED 36 million based on revaluation. This equates to each partner's distributive share in the partnership assets being AED 12 million.

As part of the deal, Mr N agreed to buy out Mr M's distributive share for AED 12 million being the Market Value of Mr M's distributive share, in cash. This results in Mr N holding a two-thirds distributive share.

Mr M receives total compensation of AED 12 million. His original contribution was AED 10 million. The additional AED 2 million is his gain which will need to be considered when Mr M determines his Taxable Income.

Variation: if the Unincorporated Partnership is fiscally opaque:

A Taxable Person that is a partner in a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership should exclude any gains or losses on transfer, sale, or other disposal of their distributive share in the fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership when determining their Taxable Income provided the distributive share meets the


129 Article 20(2)(i) read with Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.




Example 23: Change in the contractual terms of the partnership without consideration

Company A and Company B, both juridical persons, are partners in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership with a distributive share of 75% and 25%, respectively.

After several years, it is agreed that Company A will take responsibility for a key client relationship as well as new Business development, while the role of Company B will be largely unchanged. As a result, the distributive share of Company A and Company B are revised from 75% and 25% to 80% and 20%, respectively.

From a Corporate Tax perspective, the increase in the distributive share of Company A and the decrease of the distributive share of Company B is a part disposal of Company B's distributive share in the partnership.

Assuming the Market Value of 5% of the partnership Business is AED 1.5 million, then Company B would have to evaluate whether it is subject to Corporate Tax on this amount (i.e. AED 1.5 million).

Company A does not pay any compensation to Company B for acquiring the additional 5% of distributive share in the partnership. The economic circumstances and commercial rationale are that the incremental time and efforts from Company A (after having acquired the additional 5%) would give rise to an overall increase in the partnership profit such that Company B would not expect their share of future profit to reduce in absolute terms. In this case Company B would not have to adjust its Tax Return to reflect Taxable Income from the transaction. The economic circumstances and commercial rationale should be consistent with the arm's length standard.

But, alternatively, in the absence of such a commercial rationale, Company B would need to include the AED 1.5 million in the determination of its Taxable Income.






130 Article 20(2)(i) read with Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


11.3.5. Application for a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a Taxable Person, i.e. fiscally opaque

As explained above, where an application to treat an Unincorporated Partnership as a Taxable Person, i.e. fiscally opaque131 is approved by the FTA, individual partners are no longer subject to Corporate Tax in respect of the partnership's Business. Instead it is the Unincorporated Partnership that is subject to Corporate Tax in relation to the partnership's Business. This application does not affect the distributive share of the partners. The Corporate Tax consequences of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership being treated as a Taxable Person, i.e. fiscally opaque are covered in Section 6.2.

11.3.6. Transfer of the Unincorporated Partnership's Business

A partnership may transfer its entire Business or an independent part of its Business to a third party, and in consideration can receive cash or shares in a juridical person. Generally, such transfers could give rise to taxable gains or losses in the hands of the partners in accordance with their distributive share, unless Business Restructuring Relief applies.132



131 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
132 Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.
133 Cabinet Decision 49 of 2023.
134 Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.




11.4. Treatment	of	income	or	expenditure	for	a	fiscally	transparent Unincorporated Partnership after a partner leaves or retires

Once a partner leaves or retires from an Unincorporated Partnership, the partner ceases to carry on the Business and hold their distributive share in the Unincorporated Partnership, even though the Business may be continued by other partners. A partner who leaves, loses the right to their distributive share in the Unincorporated Partnership that arises after they exit the partnership Business.

There could be a situation that items of income or expenditure relating to the partnership's Business, at the time of partner's exit, are subsequently materialised at a different value. For example, a receivable previously written off is recovered, or an unanticipated expenditure (for example due to customer warranties) is payable after a partner leaves or retires.

In the case of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, where the partners are treated as Taxable Persons, the treatment of any post-departure income or expenditure would be dealt with for Corporate Tax purposes in the Tax Period in which it is required to be accounted for by the partner, depending on the accounting method adopted by such partner. A partner that leaves or retires from the partnership Business is required to account for (on an accrual or cash basis) only such income and expenditure that relates to the Tax Period (or part thereof) when they were a partner in the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership. The leaving or retiring partner will not be subject to Corporate Tax in relation to any income or expenditure that relates to a period after they cease to be a partner in the Unincorporated Partnership.

Thus, if the profit for the exiting partner's final period was adjusted, they would need to reflect that in their Tax Return. However, if the income or expense were recorded in a subsequent period, it would be reflected only in the remaining partners' Tax Returns, not the partner who had left in an earlier period. This principle is however subject to the commercial arrangement mutually agreed between the partners at the time of leaving or at the inception (i.e. in partnership deed/agreement).


In the case of a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership, the partnership is treated as a Taxable Person that is subject to Corporate Tax in relation to the partnership Business. Any income or expenditure arising after a partner leaves or retires from the Business will be taken into account at the partnership level as Corporate Tax is paid at the partnership level. Hence, the above discussion is not applicable in case of a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership.

Example 25: Partner leaves a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership where different methods of accounting are followed by the partners

Company A, Company B and Company C are partners in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership with a distributive share of 45%, 45% and 10% in the partnership, respectively.

All partners follow the Gregorian calendar year as their Tax Period. Company A and Company B follow the Accrual Basis of Accounting. Company C follows the Cash Basis of Accounting (as its Turnover does not exceed AED 3 million but it has not elected for Small Business Relief).

For the 2024 Tax Period:

On 1 January 2024, the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership is awarded a project by Company U lasting 12 months and worth AED 3 million (Revenue). Payment from Company U for executing the project is not received by the partners or the partnership during the 2024 Tax Period. Income from other contracts of AED 17 million is received during the year. The partners incur expenditure of AED 16 million in the year.

Company C exits the partnership on 31 December 2024. Company A and Company B decide to continue the partnership Business with an equal distributive share after the exit of Company C.

At the time of Company C's exit, it is mutually and commercially agreed between all the partners that no payment will be made to Company C even if any payment is received from Company U in the future. The entire payment from Company U will be retained by Company A and B in the partnership.

The distributive share in the income and expenditure of the partnership for the 2024 Tax Period, for each partner, is as follows:


(Amounts in AED)

Particulars
Company A
Company B
Company C
Income of the partnership
9,000,000
9,000,000
2,000,000
Less: expenditure of the partnership
(7,200,000)
(7,200,000)
(1,600,000)
Net income from the partnership Business
1,800,000
1,800,000
400,000

The treatment of the income and expenditure for each partner is as follows:

* Company A and B will include their share of income and expenditure (i.e. net income of AED 1,800,000 each) from the partnership Business on an accrual basis when calculating their Taxable Income for the 2024 Tax Period. This includes the expected income from Company U even though it was not received during the period.
* As Company C follows the Cash Basis of Accounting, it will include only its share of the income received, i.e. AED 1,700,000, in its Taxable Income for the 2024 Tax Period (being its share of total income receivable of AED 2,000,000 less its share of the unpaid amount from Company U of AED 300,000 [10% of AED 3,000,000]). Company C will include all of its share of expenditure (AED 1,600,000) when calculating its Taxable Income for the 2024 Tax Period as all of this expenditure was actually paid in the period.

For the 2025 Tax Period:

On 30 November 2025, Company U paid AED 3 million to the partnership for executing the project. Company A and Company B had already accounted for their share (at the time) of this income in the 2024 Tax Period on an accrual basis, being in total AED 2,700,000 (45% each). Accordingly, Company A and Company B will be required to include the excess amount that they have become entitled to due to Company C's exit in their 2025 Taxable Income, being AED 300,000 (AED 150,000 each given the distributive share is now 50:50).

As agreed between the partners, Company C will not be entitled to receive any of this income. In the absence of any receipt of the income by Company C in the 2025 Tax Period, Company C does not need to include it in its Taxable Income. Accordingly, the income attributable to Company C does not escape taxation.

Variation: If it is mutually and commercially agreed between all the partners that Company C will receive its erstwhile distributive share of the income of AED 3,000,000 whenever received from Company U, then Company C will be required to include that amount (AED 300,000) in its Taxable Income in the year of receipt.


11.4.1. Treatment of Corporate Tax Payable after a partner leaves or retires from an Unincorporated Partnership

In the case of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, Corporate Tax is not paid at the level of the Unincorporated Partnership. Instead, the partners are subject to Corporate Tax individually on their respective distributive share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure. Hence, this discussion is not applicable in the case of a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership.

In the case of a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership, the partnership is treated as a Taxable Person. However, each partner remains jointly and severally liable for the Corporate Tax Payable by the Unincorporated Partnership for those Tax Periods when they are partners in the Unincorporated Partnership.135

In terms of calculating the profits or losses of a fiscally opaque Unincorporated Partnership, the profits or losses earned before a partner leaves or retires will be attributable to the former set of partners following the former distributive share, while any profits or losses earned after the change will be attributable to the remaining partners according to the new distributive share. The exiting partner shall continue to remain jointly and severally liable for the Corporate Tax Payable by the Unincorporated Partnership for those Tax Periods when they were a partner in the Unincorporated Partnership.136



135 Article 16(9)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
136 Article 16(9)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.



Particulars
Amounts in AED


Accounting Income
50,000,000


Add/Less: assuming no adjustment
-


Taxable Income subject to Corporate Tax
50,000,000


The Corporate Tax Payable on Taxable Income for the above mentioned 6 months of the Tax Period is withheld while settling Company X's capital account following the Accrual Basis of Accounting based on its distributive share. Thereafter, Company Y and Company Z continue the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership for the rest of the Tax Period.

Due to unforeseeable circumstances Company Y and Company Z fail to settle the Corporate Tax for the Tax Period by the due date of 30 September 2027 (due to Company Y and Company Z becoming bankrupt, for instance).

In such a case, Company X can be held liable to pay the Corporate Tax relating to the time it was a partner, i.e. up to 30 June 2026. This is regardless of the fact that its share of the estimated Corporate Tax Payable was already withheld by the remaining partners. For the remaining six months of the Tax Period, after Company X left the partnership, it will not be liable for the Corporate Tax Payable of the Unincorporated Partnership.


12. Transactions	with	Related	Parties	and	Connected Persons
The Corporate Tax Law contains transfer pricing rules to ensure that the value of a transaction is not distorted by the relationship between the parties involved. To achieve this outcome, the Corporate Tax Law prescribes the application of the internationally recognised arm's length standard to transactions and arrangements between Related Parties.137

Related Parties (which includes partners in the same Unincorporated Partnership) and Control for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law are defined in Article 35 of the Corporate Tax Law. These concepts are relevant to the application of various provisions of the Corporate Tax Law, including the transfer pricing rules.138

In the context of Unincorporated Partnerships, partners in an Unincorporated Partnership shall be treated as Connected Persons and any payment between such partners should be in accordance with the arm's length standard. The same applies to any Related Party of a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership. 139 In an Unincorporated Partnership, all transactions with and between the partners should be in accordance with the arm's length standard.

Further, a payment or benefit provided by a Taxable Person to its Connected Person is deductible only to the extent it is at Market Value and incurred wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the Taxable Person's Business.140



137 Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law. 138 Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law. 139 Article 36(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 140 Article 36(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


In accordance with the arm's length standard, the income needs to be increased by AED 2 million to reflect the non-Market Value element of the cost of goods (i.e. overstatement of the cost of goods).

Considering the distributive share of Company A and Company B in the fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, the income before and after the adjustment in relation to the Market Value of the goods sold is stated below:


Particulars
Income prior to
adjustment
Income after
adjustment



Amounts in AED million


Distributive share of income for Company	A	(90%	of	AED	10
million/AED 12 million)

9,000,000

10,800,000


Distributive share of income for
Company	B	(10%	of	AED million/AED 12 million)

1,000,000

1,200,000


Total	income	of	the	fiscally
transparent	Unincorporated Partnership

10,000,000

12,000,000



13. General Anti-abuse Rule

The General Anti-abuse Rule allows the FTA to counteract or adjust any transaction or arrangement (or any part thereof) which lacks commercial substance or does not reflect economic reality and is undertaken for the main purpose of, or where one of the main purposes is, obtaining a Corporate Tax advantage that is not consistent with the intention of the Corporate Tax Law.141

Thus, if a partnership and/or its partner(s) enter into a transaction or arrangement with the main purpose or one of the main purposes of obtaining a Corporate Tax advantage, the FTA can counteract the tax advantage by disallowing any exemption, deduction, relief, reallocating income from one person to another, recharacterising the nature of any payment or otherwise disregarding the effect of the relevant tax provisions.

For example, if a partnership is established or subsequent changes are made to obtain a Corporate Tax advantage, this could be subject to adjustment under the General Anti-abuse Rule and the applicable penalties.

































141 Article 50 of the Corporate Tax Law.


14. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
March 2024
 First version

	














Registration of Natural Persons
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGRNP1

December 2023


1. Glossary	3
2. Introduction	7
2.1. Overview	7
2.2. Purpose of this guide	7
2.3. Who should read this guide?	7
2.4. How to use this guide	7
2.5. Legislative references	8
2.6. Status of this guide	8
3. Tax Registration obligations	10
3.1. Who is a Taxable Person?	10
3.2. Who is a natural person?	10
3.2.1. Resident natural person	11
3.2.2. Non-resident natural person	12
3.2.3. What is a Business and a Business Activity?	13
3.2.4. Business or Business Activities of a natural person that are subject to Corporate Tax	14
3.2.5. When is a natural person not subject to Corporate Tax and thus not required to register for Corporate Tax?	14
3.3. Calculation of Turnover	17
3.3.1. Definition of Turnover	17
3.3.2. Tax Period	17
4. The Tax Registration process for Corporate Tax	19
4.1. How to register	19
4.2. The Tax Registration process	19
4.2.1. The Tax Registration processing timeline	20
4.3. Key information and documentation requirements for Tax Registration purposes 20
5. Other procedural aspects	21
5.1. Persons already registered for Value Added Tax and Excise Tax	21
5.1.1. Tax Agents for Corporate Tax registering on behalf of another Person	21
5.1.2. Persons not registered for Value Added Tax and Excise Tax	21
5.2. Obligations once registered	21
5.3. FTA power to register a Person for Corporate Tax	22

6.1. Cessation of Business or Business Activity	23
6.2. Death of a natural person	24
7. Updates and Amendments	25

1. Glossary

Accounting Income: The accounting net profit or loss for the relevant Tax Period as per the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Accrual Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income when earned and expenditure when incurred.

Administrative Penalties: Amounts imposed and collected under the Corporate Tax Law or the Tax Procedures Law.

AED: The United Arab Emirates dirham.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Cash Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income and expenditure when cash payments are received and paid.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments.

Corporate Tax Payable: Corporate Tax that has or will become due for payment to the FTA in respect of one or more Tax Periods.

Dividend: Any payments or distributions that are declared or paid on or in respect of shares or other rights participating in the profits of the issuer of such shares or rights which do not constitute a return on capital or a return on debt claims, whether such payments or distributions are in cash, securities, or other properties, and whether payable out of profits or retained earnings or from any account or legal reserve or from capital reserve or revenue. This will include any payment or benefit which in substance or effect constitutes a distribution of profits made in connection with the acquisition or redemption or cancellation of shares or termination of other ownership interests or


rights or any transaction or arrangement with a Related Party or Connected Person which does not comply with Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Double Taxation Agreement: An international agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Financial Year: The Gregorian calendar year, or the twelve-month period for which the Taxable Person prepares Financial Statements.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

Legal Representative: The guardian or custodian of an incapacitated person or minor, or the bankruptcy trustee appointed by the court for a company that is in bankruptcy, or any other Person legally appointed to represent another Person.

Licence: A document issued by a Licensing Authority under which a Business or Business Activity is conducted in the UAE.

Licensing Authority: The competent authority concerned with licensing or authorising a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.

Personal Investment: Investment activity that a natural person conducts for their personal account that is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022.

Real Estate Investment: Any investment activity conducted by a natural person related to, directly or indirectly, the sale, leasing, sub-leasing, and renting of land or real estate property in the UAE that is not conducted, or does not require to be conducted through a Licence from a Licensing Authority.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.



Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.

Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

State: United Arab Emirates.

State Sourced Income: Income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE as specified in Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Agent: Any Person registered with the FTA who is appointed on behalf of another Person to represent him before the FTA and assist him in the fulfilment of his Tax obligations and the exercise of his associated Tax rights, under the Tax Procedures Law.

Tax Deregistration: A procedure under which a Person is deregistered for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Registration: A procedure under which a Person registers for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Registration Number: A unique number issued by the FTA to each Person who is registered for Corporate Tax purposes in the UAE.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

Turnover: The gross amount of income derived during a Gregorian calendar year.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.


Unincorporated Partnership: A relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Wage: The Wage that is given to the employee in consideration of their services under the employment contract, whether in cash or in-kind, payable annually, monthly, weekly, daily, hourly, or by piece-meal, and includes all allowances, and bonuses in addition to any other benefits provided for, in the employment contract or in accordance with the applicable legislation in the UAE.

Withholding Tax: Corporate Tax to be withheld from State Sourced Income in accordance with Article 45 of the Corporate Tax Law.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on registration of natural persons in the UAE for Corporate Tax purposes. It provides readers with an overview in relation to Corporate Tax, of:

* the Tax Registration rules for a natural person;
* how a natural person can determine whether they need to register for Corporate Tax; and
* the Tax Deregistration process.

2.3. Who should read this guide?

This guide should be read by any natural person that is conducting a Business or Business Activity in the UAE, to help them understand whether they need to register for Corporate Tax. It is intended to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.


In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Corporate Tax Law apply to natural persons. The examples in the guide:
- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:

* Federal Decree-Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as "Tax Procedures Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments, is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022 issuing the Commercial Transactions Law is referred to as "Commercial Transactions Law";
* Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 on Specifying the Categories of Businesses or Business Activities Conducted by a Resident or Non-Resident Natural Person that are Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023";
* Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023 on the Executive Regulation of Federal Decree- Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023;
* Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023'';
* Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023"; and
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 6 of 2023 on Tax Deregistration Timeline for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 6 of 2023".

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding statement, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the provisions relating to Tax Registration for Corporate Tax for


natural persons. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. Tax Registration obligations

The UAE Corporate Tax regime is a self-assessment regime. This means that a natural person is responsible for assessing whether they are within the scope of Corporate Tax, and whether they will need to fulfil any Corporate Tax obligations.

Generally, natural persons who are within the scope of Corporate Tax are required to register for Corporate Tax purposes. This will allow them to fulfil their Corporate Tax obligations, such as submitting a Corporate Tax Return and paying any Corporate Tax due.

A natural person will fall within the scope of Corporate Tax and thus be required to register for Corporate Tax purposes, where:
* he/she is a Resident Person;
* he/she is a Non-Resident Person with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE;
* he/she carries on a Business or Business Activity in respect of which he/she derives a total Turnover in excess of AED 1 million; and
* the Turnover is not derived from:
o Wage,
o Personal Investment, or
o Real Estate Investment.

Each of the above listed concepts and requirements is explained in Section 3.2.5.

3.1. Who is a Taxable Person?

A Taxable Person could either be a natural person or a juridical person. Most Taxable Persons will be required to register for Corporate Tax purposes, with the exception of Non-Resident Persons that derive only State Sourced Income without having a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

The circumstances under which a natural person will be treated as a Taxable Person who is required to register for Corporate Tax are set out below.

3.2. Who is a natural person?

The term natural person takes its ordinary meaning, and refers to a living human person of any age, whether resident in the UAE or elsewhere. A natural person would only be subject to Corporate Tax insofar as he/she conducts a Business or Business Activity in the UAE. This includes sole establishments and individual partners in Unincorporated Partnerships that conduct a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.


A sole establishment is a trading Business owned by a natural person, where the proprietor is not separate from the Business. This is because of the direct relationship and control of the natural person(s) over the Business and his/her unlimited liability for the Business's debts and other obligations. In such circumstances, the natural person carries on the Business in his/her own name, as opposed to owning an interest in a separate legal entity which carries on the Business.

A natural person can be either a Resident Person or a Non-Resident Person. See Section 3.2.1 and 3.2.2 below.

For minors or incapacitated individuals, the natural person's Corporate Tax obligations shall be fulfilled by their Legal Representative.1

3.2.1. Resident natural person

Residence for Corporate Tax purposes is not determined by physical residence in the UAE, whether by virtue of citizenship or a residency visa. For determining whether a natural person is considered a Resident Person for Corporate Tax purposes, or whether his/her income is taxable, the approach is as follows:
1. When a natural person resides in the UAE and he/she conducts Business or Business Activities in the UAE, he/she is considered to be a Resident Person and, therefore, a Taxable Person for Corporate Tax purposes, subject to the key considerations covered in Section 3.2.4 and 3.2.5.
2. When a natural person resides outside the UAE (for example, having his/her home in another country), he/she becomes a Resident Person for Corporate Tax purposes if he/she conducts Business or Business Activities in the UAE, as shall be covered in Section 3.2.3, 3.2.4 and 3.2.5.

Accordingly, under the UAE Corporate Tax Law, and if the natural person has not invoked the application of a Double Taxation Agreement, any natural person conducting Business or Business Activities in the UAE will be a Resident Person for purposes of the Corporate Tax Law.

This approach means that natural persons conducting Business or Business Activities in the UAE are Resident Persons for Corporate Tax irrespective of their nationality, whether they hold a residency visa in the UAE, whether their income is sourced in the UAE or from abroad, or how much time they may physically spend in the UAE.

By implication, in the absence of a Double Taxation Agreement, a natural person who has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE by virtue of a fixed place through which



1 Article 7 of the Tax Procedures Law and Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023.


he/she carries on Business in the UAE, will be treated as a Resident Person for UAE Corporate Tax purposes.

3.2.2. Non-resident natural person

Where a natural person resides in a country that has an applicable Double Taxation Agreement with the UAE, and as a result of the application of that Double Taxation Agreement the natural person is not resident in the UAE but has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, he/she will be a Non-Resident Person and taxable in the UAE in relation to his/her Permanent Establishment.

Under the UAE Corporate Tax Law, where no Double Taxation Agreement is applicable to the position of the natural person, a natural person cannot be a Non- Resident with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE. Instead, he/she would be considered as a Resident Person, as explained in Section 3.2.1.

Since the position may be different if a Double Taxation Agreement is applicable, each non-resident natural person should assess their UAE Corporate Tax status based on their particular circumstances.

A natural person residing outside the UAE may also be a Non-Resident Person, if they derive State Sourced Income,2 which is income that accrues in, or is derived from, the UAE, as long as that income is not from a Business or Business Activity conducted by the natural person in the UAE.3

State Sourced Income derived by a natural person who is a Non-Resident Person may be subject to Withholding Tax (currently the rate is 0%),4 and would not require a natural person to register with the FTA.

Thus, in summary, if the natural person is a Resident Person (or is Non-Resident Person with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE), their related income would be subject to Corporate Tax at the applicable rate (rather than Withholding Tax), if such natural person's total Turnover exceeds AED 1 million during the Gregorian calendar year, as explained below. This would require them to register for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.







2 Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.
3 Article 11(3) and 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
4 Article 45 of the Corporate Tax Law.


3.2.3. What is a Business and a Business Activity?

The Corporate Tax Law provides the definitions of Business and Business Activity that fall under the scope of Corporate Tax in the UAE.5

Business Activity has a very comprehensive definition and includes any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or activities, conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business is defined as any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis. The definition provides the following examples for activities constituting a Business: "industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities". The definition also mentions that any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties constitutes a Business.

Nevertheless, "ongoing" should not be interpreted in such a way so as to exclude short-term activities. As such, short-term activities can be within the scope of Corporate Tax on the basis that they constitute a "transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities" as prescribed in the definition. The definition allows for a short-term commercial activity to be considered a Business for Corporate Tax purposes. This is why the Corporate Tax Law refers to the "conduct" of a Business rather than the "carrying on" of a Business.

Examples of activities conducted by a natural person that are not typically considered a Business or a Business Activity would include participation in a lottery or game show resulting in winnings or prizes.

However, whether or not a Business is conducted on an ongoing basis will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

If a natural person conducts Business or Business Activity while being present in the UAE, their Taxable Income (if any) will include income derived from sources (for example, clients) located in the UAE and outside of the UAE, as long as the income relates to the Business or Business Activities they are conducting in the UAE.

For the purpose of determining whether the income is related to the Business or Business Activity conducted in the UAE, it would be relevant to consider (among others), the following elements:
- whether persons who contributed to producing or selling the goods or services are managed in, working from, or are residents of the UAE;



5 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.


- whether contracting or Business development related to selling the goods or providing services was conducted from the UAE; or
- whether the assets that contributed to the production of the goods or rendering of the services are located in the UAE.

On the other hand, in general terms, where a natural person is considered a Non- Resident Person, such natural person would only be subject to tax from their Business or Business Activities conducted within the UAE.

3.2.4. Business or Business Activities of a natural person that are subject to Corporate Tax

Business or Business Activities conducted by a natural person in the UAE are subject to Corporate Tax if the total Turnover from such Business or Business Activities exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year.6 Where the Business or Business Activity is subject to Corporate Tax, the natural person is required to register for Corporate Tax purposes.

The term Turnover is defined as the gross amount of income derived during a Gregorian calendar year.7 This means that the total Turnover is the sum of all the income before any costs are deducted. See Section 3.3 below regarding the calculation of the total Turnover of a natural person.

3.2.5. When is a natural person not subject to Corporate Tax and thus not required to register for Corporate Tax?

For a natural person, income from the following categories is not considered as arising from Business or Business Activity, and is disregarded when determining the total Turnover and not subject to Corporate Tax, regardless of the amount:8
* Wage;
* Personal Investment income; and
* Real Estate Investment income.

If a natural person conducts an activity that generates any of the above incomes and does not conduct any Business or Business Activities in the UAE, they will not need to register for Corporate Tax purposes.






6 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
7 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
8 Article 2(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.


3.2.5.1. Wage

Wage, including any compensation or benefit received, whether in cash or in-kind, by any employee from his/her employer is not subject to Corporate Tax. Thus, a salary or other form of remuneration received by a natural person as an employee from his/her employer would not fall within the scope of Corporate Tax.

3.2.5.2. Personal Investment income

Personal Investment income is not subject to Corporate Tax when derived by a natural person from investment activity conducted in his/her personal capacity that is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Commercial Transactions Law.9

3.2.5.3. Real Estate Investment income

Real Estate Investment income is not subject to Corporate Tax when derived by a natural person if it is related, directly or indirectly, to the selling, leasing, sub-leasing, and renting of land or real estate property in the UAE that is not conducted through a Licence nor requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority.10

Whether or not a natural person's activities which give rise to investment income or income from the selling, leasing, sub-leasing, and renting of land or real estate property in the UAE, is conducted through a Licence or required to be conducted through a Licence, is a question of fact to be determined by each natural person based on his/her own facts and circumstances.

3.2.5.4. Natural person not exceeding the AED 1 million threshold

If a natural person conducts a Business or Business Activity in the UAE and his/her total Turnover does not exceed AED 1 million in a Gregorian calendar year, he/she will not be subject to Corporate Tax, hence the natural person would not need to register for Corporate Tax.

For further details on taxable Business or Business Activities for natural persons, readers are advised to consult Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.






9 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
10 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.



Example 1: Tax Registration for natural persons

Case 1: A natural person is a shareholder in a UAE joint stock company and does not conduct Business independently from the company.

The income from being a shareholder will be classed as Personal Investment income so the natural person will not be required to register for Corporate Tax.

Case 2: A natural person develops accounting software in her home in Sharjah and starts selling licences to companies. The total sales in a Gregorian calendar year are AED 1.2 million.

The natural person is required to register as she is conducting a Business in the UAE and her total Turnover in the Gregorian calendar year exceeds AED 1 million.

Case 3: A natural person is a shareholder of a UAE joint stock company and opens an independent car rental agency operated from his home in Abu Dhabi that generates a monthly income of AED 1.5 million.

The income from being a shareholder will be classed as Personal Investment income so will not be subject to Corporate Tax. However, the natural person is required to register as he is conducting a Business in the UAE (i.e. the car rental agency Business) and his total Turnover in the Gregorian calendar year exceeds AED 1 million.

Case 4: A natural person employed by a UAE limited liability company sells her two personal cars for more than AED 550,000 each.

The natural person is not required to register on the basis that the selling of her personal cars is not a Business Activity, and her Wage is also not subject to Corporate Tax.

Case 5: A natural person derives rental income of AED 1.5 million from two apartments he owns in the UAE that he bought as a Real Estate Investment.

The natural person is not required to register as the rental income will be classed as Real Estate Investment income, which is not subject to Corporate Tax for natural persons.


3.3. Calculation of Turnover

3.3.1. Definition of Turnover

For the purposes of calculating the total Turnover of a natural person, gross income derived during a Gregorian calendar year from all the categories of Businesses or Business Activities that he/she conducts in the UAE should be taken into consideration. For example, income derived from a sole proprietorship or his/her share of income from a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership would need to be combined.

Income derived from Wages, Personal Investments, or Real Estate Investments is excluded when determining the total Turnover.

For the purpose of determining whether the natural person's total Turnover exceeds the threshold of AED 1 million, the total Turnover is that of the Gregorian calendar year in question. 11 The total Turnover should be measured on an Accrual Basis of Accounting except where the natural person applies the Cash Basis of Accounting, in which case it must be determined using the Cash Basis of Accounting.12

Eligibility for Small Business Relief does not affect a Person's registration obligations to register for Corporate Tax purposes. A natural person's registration obligations for Corporate Tax start as soon as his/her total Turnover exceeds the AED 1 million threshold. The natural person can subsequently elect to apply Small Business Relief in the relevant Tax Period, where the relevant conditions are met.13

3.3.2. Tax Period

The Tax Period of a natural person who conducts a Business or Business Activity that is subject to Corporate Tax, shall be the Gregorian calendar year. The Gregorian calendar year runs from 1 January until 31 December.

The first potential Tax Period for a natural person is the 2024 Gregorian calendar year. For example, a natural person starting their Business or Business Activity on 1 October 2024 would need to assess whether he/she exceeds the AED 1 million threshold by 31 December 2024. If this is the case, he/she would need to register for Corporate Tax purposes and his/her first Tax Period would be the Gregorian calendar year commencing on 1 January 2024 and ending on 31 December 2024. He/she would need to file his/her Tax Return before the end of September 2025.


11 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
12 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
13 Article 21(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Articles 2 and 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.





Example 3: Dividends from investments

A natural person operates a small bakery in the UAE and decided to buy shares in Company C, using the Business account. Company C is a flour production company that supplies flour to the bakery.

During the Gregorian calendar year 2025, the natural person receives AED 500,000 in Dividends from Company C. The Turnover for the bakery for the Gregorian calendar year is AED 900,000. Therefore, the natural person's total Turnover for that year is AED 1.4 million.

The Dividends received from Company C will be included as part of that Tax Period's total Turnover, since the Dividends were received in the course of a Business Activity as part of the Business from the bakery's Business account, not the natural person's personal account, i.e. not as a Personal Investment. This will be calculated as follows:

Income from bakery: AED 900,000 Dividends from Company C: AED 500,000 Total Turnover: AED 1.4 million

The natural person is considered in this case to meet the AED 1 million threshold.


4. The Tax Registration process for Corporate Tax

4.1. How to register

An application to register for Corporate Tax can be made on the EmaraTax portal. A natural person who is already registered for Value Added Tax or Excise Tax can use his/her existing login details. A natural person that has not previously registered with the FTA will be required to create new login credentials the first time he/she accesses the EmaraTax portal.

A step-by-step user guide on the Tax Registration process is available on the FTA website, and additional support can be accessed by contacting the FTA helpline on 80082923 during working hours.

4.2. The Tax Registration process

A natural person who is required to register for Corporate Tax must submit a registration application along with the relevant supporting documentation to the FTA.14 The FTA will review each application and either approve or reject it. Once the application is approved, the FTA will issue the natural person with a Tax Registration Number.

Figure 1: Overview of the Tax Registration process





14 Article 6(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023.


4.2.1. The Tax Registration processing timeline

The FTA will aim to review the registration application form and respond within 20 business days from the date on which the completed registration application is received.

Where additional information has been requested by the FTA, the FTA will aim to respond to the applicant within 20 business days of receiving the additional information. If the additional information is not submitted within the timeframe specified by the FTA, the application shall be rejected and a new application will need to be submitted.

4.3. Key information and documentation requirements for Tax Registration purposes

The Tax Registration process has been designed to be simple and easy to complete for applicants. The information required to complete the registration application should be information that the applicant will already have, or is expected to have.

Applicants should ensure that they have the information and documentation specified in Table 1 available before starting the Tax Registration process.

Table 1: Overview of Tax Registration information and documentation requirements

Information and documentation for a natural person
Requirement
Contact details: telephone number, physical address and email address

Mandatory

Passport (a copy of the photo page to be uploaded with the application)

Mandatory

Emirates ID (a copy of the front and back of the Emirates ID to be uploaded with the application)

Mandatory (if applicable)
Sole establishment details and Licence details in relation to the Business and Business Activities conducted, if any (a copy of each to be uploaded with the application)

Not mandatory
Value Added Tax, or Excise Tax registration details (with an attachment, if any)

Not mandatory
Bank account details
Not mandatory


5. Other procedural aspects

5.1. Persons already registered for Value Added Tax and Excise Tax

A natural person who is already registered for Value Added Tax and/or Excise Tax will still be required to register for Corporate Tax if he/she is within the scope of the Corporate Tax regime. Once registered, he/she will be issued with a separate Tax Registration Number for Corporate Tax purposes. This Tax Registration Number will be similar to their existing Tax Registration Number for Value Added Tax and/or Excise Tax, but the last digit will be different from their Tax Registration Number(s) for Value Added Tax and/or Excise Tax.

5.1.1. Tax Agents for Corporate Tax registering on behalf of another Person

Many natural persons will have Tax Agents who will act on their behalf and help them to meet their Corporate Tax obligations, subject to meeting certain conditions. These Tax Agents might already act on their behalf for Value Added Tax and/or Excise Tax, and will be able to do so for Corporate Tax purposes, if they are listed with the FTA as Tax Agents for Corporate Tax purposes.

5.1.2. Persons not registered for Value Added Tax and Excise Tax

Natural persons who are not subject to Value Added Tax or Excise Tax but are within the scope of the Corporate Tax will be required to register for Corporate Tax purposes.

5.2. Obligations once registered

Once a natural person has registered for Corporate Tax, he/she will be subject to a number of administrative Corporate Tax obligations. These include:
* Filing a Tax Return and paying any Corporate Tax due within 9 months of the end of their Tax Period;15
* Retaining all records and documents which support his/her tax position for a period of 7 years following the end of the Tax Period to which they relate;16 and
* Ensuring that all of his/her registration details are up to date and informing the FTA of any changes within 20 business days, otherwise penalties may arise.17







15 Article 48 and Article 53(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
16 Article 56(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
17 Article 6(4) of Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023.


5.3. FTA power to register a Person for Corporate Tax

If the FTA believes that a natural person is a Taxable Person and should have registered for Corporate Tax but has failed to do so, the FTA can, at its discretion and based on information available to the FTA, register that natural person for Corporate Tax, effective from the date they should have registered from.18

A natural person has the right to appeal against a tax assessment issued following a registration initiated by the FTA if they disagree with such a decision.





























18 Article 51(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


6. Deregistration

6.1. Cessation of Business or Business Activity

Generally, if a natural person is no longer subject to Corporate Tax, he/she should deregister. This will most commonly occur when his/her Business or Business Activity ceases.19

A natural person will only have one Tax Registration Number for Corporate Tax for all his/her Business and Business Activities. A natural person should only deregister for Corporate Tax if he/she has ceased conducting all Business or Business Activities.20

In case of cessation of his/her Business or Business Activity, a natural person or, in certain cases, his/her Legal Representative must make a Tax Deregistration application to the FTA. This application must be made within 3 months of the date of cessation of the Business or Business Activity.21 The date of deregistration will be the date the Business or Business Activity ceased, unless the FTA determines otherwise.22

A natural person who is already registered for Corporate Tax with the FTA should not file a Tax Deregistration application if any of the natural person's Business or Business Activities are still active or being conducted, even if the natural person's total Turnover falls under the AED 1 million threshold within a Gregorian calendar year. Instead, he/she will retain his/her Tax Registration status. However, a natural person who remains registered whilst his/her total Turnover is under the AED 1 million threshold will only be required to file a 'nil' tax return.

The Tax Deregistration will not be approved if the natural person has not filed all the required Tax Returns and paid all due Corporate Tax and Administrative Penalties, including the Tax Return for the Tax Period up to and including the date of cessation.23

In the event that a natural person submitted an application for deregistration and then in the same Tax Period commenced a new Business or Business Activity following submission, the Tax Deregistration application would no longer be valid and the natural person would continue to be registered for Corporate Tax.24



19 Article 52(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
20 Article 52(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
21 Article 2(1) of FTA Decision No. 6 of 2023.
22 Article 2(1) of FTA Decision No. 6 of 2023.
23 Article 52(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
24 Article 6 of Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023.





6.2. Death of a natural person

When a natural person dies, he/she ceases to be a Taxable Person. The settlement of any outstanding Corporate Tax liabilities due from the natural person prior to the date of death, shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Article 42(1) of the Tax Procedures Law. These apply as follows:
* For Corporate Tax Payable due prior to the date of death, settlement shall be made from the value of the elements of the estate or income arising thereof prior to distribution among the heirs or legatees.
* If it transpires after the distribution of the estate that there is Corporate Tax Payable still outstanding, recourse shall be had against the heirs and legatees for settlement of such outstanding tax each to the extent of their share in the estate, unless a clearance certificate has been obtained from the FTA for the estate representative or any of the heirs.


7. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
December 2023
* First version

	











Exempt Persons: Public Benefit Entities, Pension Funds and Social Security Funds
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGEPF1

December 2023

	

Contents
1. Glossary	3
2. Introduction	6
2.1. Overview	6
2.2. Purpose of this guide	6
2.3. Who should read this guide?	6
2.4. How to use this guide	6
2.5. Legislative references	7
2.6. Status of this guide	8
3. What is an Exempt Person?	9
4. Qualifying Public Benefit Entities	10
4.1. Conditions for meeting Qualifying Public Benefit Entity status	10
4.1.1. Establishment and operation purpose	11
4.1.2. Business or Business Activity condition	12
4.1.3. Income and assets condition	13
4.1.4. No personal benefit conditions	14
4.1.5. Listed in a Cabinet decision	15
4.1.6. Monitoring compliance	15
4.1.7. Effective date of exemption	16
4.2. Payments to a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity	16
5. Public and private pension funds and social security funds	17
5.1. Public pension funds and social security funds	17
5.2. Private pension funds and social security funds	17
5.2.1. Purpose	17
5.2.2. Application requirements and process to be an Exempt Person	17
5.3. Subsidiary of a public or private fund or social security fund	19
5.4. Contributions to a pension or social security fund	19
6. Failure to meet the conditions of an Exempt Person	20
6.1. Liquidation or termination	20
6.2. Failure is of temporary nature which is promptly rectified	20
6.3. Failure is to obtain Corporate Tax advantage	21

	
7. Corporate Tax consequences of benefitting from Exempt Person status	22
7.1. No availability of Small Business Relief	22
7.2. No availability of Qualifying Group Relief or Business Restructuring Relief	22
7.3. No transfer of Tax Loss	22
7.4. Exempt Person cannot be a member of a Tax Group	22
8. Compliance Requirements	23
8.1. Tax Registration	23
8.2. Application for exemption and applicable timelines	23
8.3. Administration	24
8.4. Confirmation by the Auditor	24
8.5. Record keeping required to maintain Exempt Person status	25
9. Updates and Amendments	26

1. Glossary

Auditor: An independent Person licensed and registered by the competent authorities of the UAE, that is appointed and remunerated by a private pension fund or a private social security fund to audit its Financial Statements.

Beneficiary: Any Person entitled to a share in a Pension Plan due to the death of the Pension Plan Member.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business Restructuring Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for business restructuring transactions, available under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.

Cash Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income and expenditure when cash payments are received and paid.

Connected Person: Any Person affiliated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 36(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Control: The direction and influence over one Person by another Person in accordance with the conditions of Article 35(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses.

Disability: Covers full disability and partial disability as defined in Federal Law No. 7 of 1999.

End of Service Benefit: Benefits of an employee upon end of service as per the provisions of Federal Decree-Law No. 33 of 2021 and Federal Law No. 7 of 1999.


Exempt Person: A Person exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the accounting standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

Government Controlled Entity: Any juridical person, directly or indirectly wholly owned and controlled by a Government Entity, as specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Government Entity: The Federal Government, Local Governments, ministries, government departments, government agencies, authorities and public institutions of the Federal Government or Local Governments.

Minister: Minister of Finance.

Pension Plan: A contract having an explicit objective of providing benefits upon a defined retirement age in the UAE, prior to which the benefits cannot be paid without incurring a significant contractual penalty. It may also provide benefits in cases of disability and death.

Pension Plan Member: A natural person who is making contributions, or on behalf of whom contributions are being made, to a private pension fund and is accumulating assets or entitlements in the private pension fund.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.

Qualifying Group: Two or more Taxable Persons that meet the conditions of Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Group Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for transfers within a Qualifying Group, available under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.

Qualifying Investment Fund: Any entity whose principal activity is the issuing of investment interests to raise funds or pool investor funds or establish a joint investment fund with the aim of enabling the holder of such an investment interest to benefit from the profits or gains from the entity's acquisition, holding, management or disposal of


investments, in accordance with the applicable legislation and when it meets the conditions set out in Article 10 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Public Benefit Entity: Any entity that meets the conditions set out in Article 9 of the Corporate Tax Law and that is listed in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

Tax Group: Two or more Taxable Persons treated as a single Taxable Person according to the conditions of Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Loss: Any negative Taxable Income as calculated under the Corporate Tax Law for a given Tax Period.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Registration: A procedure under which a Person registers for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was signed on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on Exempt Persons status for Corporate Tax purposes. It provides readers with an overview of conditions for Exempt Persons status for:
* Qualifying Public Benefit Entities,
* public pension or social security funds,
* private pension or social security funds, and
* wholly owned and controlled subsidiaries of pension and social security funds.

2.3. Who should read this guide?

Any Person interested in or affected by the Corporate Tax rules applying to Qualifying Public Benefit Entities, public and private pension or social security funds, as well as their wholly owned and controlled subsidiaries in the UAE should read this guide.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.


In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Corporate Tax Law apply to these Exempt Persons. The examples in the guide:
- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:

* Federal Law No. 7 of 1999 on the Issuance of the Law of Pensions and Social Security, and its amendments, is referred to as "Federal Law No. 7 of 1999";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 33 of 2021 regulating Labour Relations, and its amendments, is referred to as "Federal Decree-Law No. 33 of 2021";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments, is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023 Regarding the Qualifying Public Benefit Entities for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023 on the Determination of the Conditions under which a Person may Continue to be Deemed as an Exempt Person, or Cease to be Deemed as an Exempt Person from a Different Date for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023 on Private Pension Funds and Private Social Security Funds for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023";
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 7 of 2023 on Provisions of Exemption from Corporate Tax for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023"; and
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 11 of 2023 on Requirements of Submitting a Declaration for Exempt Persons for purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 11 of 2023".


2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the tax implications of having an Exempt Person status under the Corporate Tax regime in the UAE for certain types of entities. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. What is an Exempt Person?

The Corporate Tax Law exempts particular Persons where there are strong public interest and policy justifications for not subjecting them to tax. These Persons are considered "Exempt Persons".1

The Exempt Persons covered in this guide are:
1. Qualifying Public Benefit Entities that are listed in a Cabinet Decision and meet relevant conditions.2 The relevant conditions are discussed in Section 4.1.
2. Public and private pension or social security funds, which may become Exempt Persons upon application and subject to approval by the FTA.3 The conditions vary depending on whether the fund in question is public or private. For private funds, the conditions also differ between pension funds and social security funds. The conditions for public funds are discussed in Section 5.1, and for private funds in Section 5.2.

If a pension or social security fund is an Exempt Person, its wholly owned subsidiary may also apply to the FTA to be categorised as an Exempt Person, provided it meets certain conditions.4 The relevant conditions are discussed in Section 5.3.




























1 Article 4(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
2 Article 4(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 3 Article 4(1)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law. 4 Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law.


4. Qualifying Public Benefit Entities

4.1. Conditions for meeting Qualifying Public Benefit Entity status

The term "public benefit entity" refers to an organisation formed by private individuals or government or non-governmental bodies for the purpose of carrying out charitable, social, cultural, religious, or other public benefit activities without the motive of making a profit for distribution to private Persons. Recognising the important role these entities play in society, by taking a shared responsibility with the Government for the promotion of social or public welfare, or communal or group interests, the Corporate Tax Law provides an exemption from Corporate Tax for Qualifying Public Benefit Entities.

The Corporate Tax Law defines a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity as any entity that (1) meets the conditions set out in Article 9 of the Corporate Tax Law, and (2) is listed in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.5

The conditions set out in Article 9 of the Corporate Tax Law are as follows:
a. The entity is established and operated for any of the following purposes:
* exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, artistic, cultural, athletic, educational, healthcare, environmental, humanitarian, animal protection or other similar purposes, or
* as a professional entity, chamber of commerce, or a similar entity operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare or public benefit.
b. The entity does not conduct a Business or Business Activity, except for such activities that directly relate to or are aimed at fulfilling the purpose for which the entity was established.
c. The entity's income or assets are used exclusively in the furtherance of the purpose for which it was established, or for the payment of any associated necessary and reasonable expenditure incurred.
d. No part of the entity's income or assets is payable to, or otherwise available, for the personal benefit of any shareholder, member, trustee, founder, or settlor that is not itself a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity, Government Entity or Government Controlled Entity.
e. Any other conditions as may be prescribed in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

In order for a public benefit entity which meets the above conditions to become a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity it should also be is listed in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister. In order to achieve this, a public benefit entity needs to apply to the relevant local or federal government entity with which it is registered. For instance, in the case of a UAE national who has set up a charitable

5 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.


organisation in the UAE, this may be the Ministry of Community Development. The relevant government entity will consider the application, and may request evidence that the conditions within the Corporate Tax Law are met. If satisfied it will refer the case to the Ministry of Finance for inclusion in a memo from the Minister to the Cabinet. Following the issuing of such a decision the entity will qualify to be exempt from Corporate Tax.

Conditions (a), (b), (c) and (d) are discussed below. Condition (e) is not currently applicable, as no other conditions have been prescribed by the Cabinet to-date.

A foreign organisation that has a presence in the UAE and meets the relevant conditions may also be a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity, if listed in the relevant Cabinet Decision.

4.1.1. Establishment and operation purpose

This condition requires that the entity is established and operated for any of the following:
* exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, artistic, cultural, athletic, educational, healthcare, environmental, humanitarian, animal protection or other similar purposes, or
* as a professional entity, chamber of commerce, or a similar entity operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare or public benefit.6

These requirements are referred to below as the first and second "purpose requirements", respectively. If the entity satisfies one of the above purpose requirements, this condition is met.

The first purpose requirement is a non-exhaustive list of worthy purpose categories that may entitle a public benefit entity to an exemption from Corporate Tax. The categories listed are umbrella terms that would cover any related public benefit activities. Humanitarian, for example, may include distributing food to those in need or providing shelter or natural disaster relief, and culture may include museums, heritage organisations or entities supporting the advancement of arts and history.

This first purpose requirement does not require that an entity is established and operated for a single purpose. The Corporate Tax Law provides an inclusive list of purposes, all of which are permitted. An entity may have multiple purposes although they all need to be permitted. There must be an exclusivity of purpose, i.e. the entity is established and operated exclusively for permitted purposes. It cannot be partially for permitted purposes, and partially for a separate purpose.



The second purpose requirement refers to an exclusivity of purpose, in that the entity must operate exclusively for the promotion of social welfare or public benefit. This second requirement also specifies that the entity operates as a professional entity, chamber of commerce, or a similar entity. The emphasis is not on the legal form of the entity, but on the nature of how it operates. What is important is that it operates in a way that is consistent with its purpose.


4.1.2. Business or Business Activity condition

This condition requires that the entity does not conduct a Business or Business Activity, except for such activities that directly relate to or are aimed at fulfilling the purpose for which the entity was established.7 This is to prevent a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity from competing with other non-exempt entities that engage in a similar commercial activity.

If an entity does not conduct a Business or Business Activity, this condition is automatically met. If the entity conducts a Business or Business Activity, it has to be assessed whether the Business or Business Activity directly relates to, or is aimed at fulfilling, the purpose for which the entity was established. Examples of commercial activities that would not constitute an unrelated Business may include organising gala


dinners to raise funds, a museum selling admission tickets, or a sports club selling refreshments in its canteen.




4.1.3. Income and assets condition

This condition requires that the entity's income or assets are used exclusively (1) in the furtherance of the purpose for which it was established, or (2) for the payment of any associated necessary and reasonable expenditure incurred.8

For the purposes of (2), where income or assets are used exclusively for the payment of expenditure, such expenditure must be both necessary and reasonable, i.e. both conditions must be satisfied.

8 Article 9(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.



Necessary and reasonable expenditure may include rent, utilities, insurance premiums and remuneration paid to employees and officers for services actually rendered. Remuneration should not be excessive taking into account the particular service rendered and the amount generally charged for such a service. Whether an expenditure is reasonable and necessary is a matter of fact, and should be determined with regards to the specific circumstances of the entity, and its purpose and operating model.

Example 4: Income and assets condition

A group of individuals establish an association to promote traditional music in the UAE. They organise a series of concerts in the UAE, inviting local and overseas musicians. The concerts are very successful and raise a considerable amount of income for the association.

Most of the income is used to pay for the cost of organising the concerts. This is an example of associated necessary and reasonable expenditure.

The remaining income is set aside to fund future music concerts in the UAE. This is an example of income being used exclusively for the furtherance of the purpose for which it was established.

Subsequently, the association decides to use some of that income to organise an art exhibition overseas. The event has no visible connection to the purpose of promoting or benefitting traditional music in the UAE. In this instance, the income has not been used exclusively to further the purpose of the association, nor has the income been used for the payment of necessary and reasonable expenditure of the association, with regards to its purpose. As a result, the income and assets condition is not met. Accordingly, the association would fail to be a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity.

4.1.4. No personal benefit conditions

This condition requires that no part of the entity's income or assets is payable to, or otherwise available, for the personal benefit of any shareholder, member, trustee, founder, or settlor, unless it is payable to a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity, Government Entity or Government Controlled Entity.9

This condition is there to ensure that its income and assets are not used to directly or indirectly promote the economic self-interest of any fiduciary or employee or for any

9 Article 9(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.


other personal pecuniary gains. It does not preclude the payment of salaries or reimbursement of expenditure to Persons and their Connected Persons involved in the establishment or operation of the entity, provided that such expenditure is necessary and priced at arm's length.


4.1.5. Listed in a Cabinet decision

The definition of Qualifying Public Benefit Entity in the Corporate Tax Law requires that in addition to meeting the conditions in Article 9 of the Corporate Tax Law, the entity must be listed in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023, issued on 7 April 2023, sets out a list of entities that are to be considered as Qualifying Public Benefit Entities for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law.10 The Cabinet has the power to amend the list in the future at the suggestion of the Minister, making either additions or deletions to it.11

4.1.6. Monitoring compliance

For the purposes of monitoring compliance with the exemption requirements, the FTA may request any relevant information or records from a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity to verify that the entity continues to meet the relevant conditions to be exempt from

10 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023. The entities are listed in a schedule annexed to this Decision.
11 Article 3 of Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023.


Corporate Tax. 12 The information requested must be provided within the timeline specified by the FTA and may include, 13 for example, books and records to demonstrate that the resources of the Qualifying Public Benefit Entity were used only for its stated public benefit purpose, copies of agreements entered into by the Qualifying Public Benefit Entity, and details of its beneficiaries, employees, officers and fiduciaries.

4.1.7. Effective date of exemption

In principle, the approval of an organisation as a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity would generally be effective from the beginning of the Tax Period in which the Qualifying Public Benefit Entity is included in the relevant Cabinet Decision. However, the Cabinet may allow, for example, an earlier start date where the entity complied with the requirements of this Article in prior Tax Periods.14


4.2. Payments to a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity

A Taxable Person who makes donations, grants or gifts to a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity which is listed in a Cabinet Decision can claim a deduction for Corporate Tax purposes. No deduction is allowed for donations, gifts or grants made to an entity that is not a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity.15
























12 Article 9(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 13 Article 9(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 14 Article 9(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 15 Article 33(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5. Public and private pension funds and social security funds
5.1. Public pension funds and social security funds

Public pension funds and social security funds are typically initiated, sponsored and governed by a Federal or Local Government Entity. However, as the entitlement to receive the benefits from these funds and any surplus assets of the fund normally rests with the beneficiaries, they are not typically considered to be wholly owned and controlled by the Government Entity which oversees them.

Recognising their importance to the society, public pension funds and social security funds can make an application to the FTA to be exempt from Corporate Tax.16

Once approved, the exemption from Corporate Tax shall be effective from the beginning of the Tax Period specified in the application, or any other date determined by the FTA.

5.2. Private pension funds and social security funds

5.2.1. Purpose

A private pension fund is a fund created to manage pension contributions and provide payments to retired natural persons above a defined retirement age.

A private social security fund is a fund created by a private employer for the purposes of providing statutory end of service gratuity payments to employees.

5.2.2. Application requirements and process to be an Exempt Person

The same Exempt Person status may be available to certain private pension funds or social security funds that meet the relevant conditions following an application to, and approval by, the FTA.17

To be eligible for exemption from Corporate Tax, private pension funds and social security funds need to be subject to regulatory oversight of a competent authority in the UAE, and must have a pool of assets that have been designated as "pension plan assets" or  "fund assets" by law or a contract governing the establishment and


16 Article 4(1)(g) and Article 4(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
17 Article 4(1)(g) and Article 4(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


operation of the funds.18 These assets must be solely used to finance the pension plan benefits or end of service benefit.19

Additionally, the plan members/beneficiaries must have a right or a contractual claim or entitlement to the assets or earnings of the pension fund. However, this does not apply to a social security fund.20

The fund must also have an Auditor,21 which is required to confirm annually that the requirements for the fund to be exempt have been complied with and report to the FTA any breach of the conditions.22

Income received by the fund can only come from one of the following:23
* investments or deposits held for fulfilling the obligations of the fund and the investments do not constitute a Business operated by the fund,
* underwriting commissions charged for the purposes of the fund,
* rebates given by fund managers that are not considered compensation for services provided by the fund, or
* any other income earned through investments for the benefit of plan members or beneficiaries of the End of Service Benefit in accordance with a defined investment policy.

The	FTA,	however,	can	withdraw	this	exemption	in	any	of	the	following circumstances:24
* the FTA finds the fund no longer meets any of the conditions to be exempt,
* the Auditor has confirmed that the fund no longer meets any of the conditions to be exempt,
* the Auditor does not confirm the compliance of the fund annually, or
* the Auditor does not report to the FTA any actual breach of the conditions.









18 Article 4(1)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law and Articles 2(1) and 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
19 Articles 2(1) and 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
20 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
21 Articles 2(4) and 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
22 Articles 6(1) and 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
23 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
24 Article 6(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.


5.3. Subsidiary of a public or private fund or social security fund

A subsidiary of a public or private pension fund or social security fund that is an Exempt Person can apply to the FTA to be exempt from Corporate Tax provided it meets certain conditions.25

The subsidiary entity must meet the following conditions:26
* it is a juridical person incorporated in the UAE,
* it is wholly owned and controlled by the Exempt Person, and
* it conducts any of the following activities:
a. undertaking part or whole of the activity of the Exempt Person,
b. engaging exclusively in holding assets or investing funds for the benefit of the Exempt Person, or
c. only carrying out activities that are ancillary to those carried out by the Exempt Person.

As noted above, the subsidiary must be incorporated in the UAE. A subsidiary incorporated in a foreign jurisdiction cannot apply to be an Exempt Person under Article 4(1)(h) even if it is effectively managed and controlled in the UAE. A subsidiary is said to be wholly controlled by an Exempt Person if the entity has the direct ability, whether in its own right or by agreement or otherwise, to influence the subsidiary.

5.4. Contributions to a pension or social security fund

A contribution to a pension or social security fund by a Taxable Person who is an employer is tax deductible under general principles (i.e. Chapter Nine of the Corporate Tax Law on Deductions). There is no requirement for the fund to be an Exempt Person in order to benefit from a deduction under general principles. A Taxable Person, who is an employer, may deduct the total value of contributions made to a private pension fund in respect of its employees who are Pension Plan Members in the Tax Period in which such contributions are paid.27 The value of contributions which may be deducted for each Pension Plan Member shall not exceed 15% of the total Pension Plan Member's remuneration that is deductible for Corporate Tax purposes in the relevant Tax Period.28 The maximum deduction is applicable whether the pension or social security fund is an Exempt Person or not.






25 Article 4(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
26 Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law.
27 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
28 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.


6. Failure to meet the conditions of an Exempt Person

In the event where an Exempt Person fails to meet the relevant conditions at any time during a Tax Period, this Person shall cease to be considered an Exempt Person from the beginning of that Tax Period.29

The exceptions to the rule above where an Exempt Person may continue to be an Exempt Person or cease to be an Exempt Person from a different date, are outlined below.

6.1. Liquidation or termination30

If an Exempt Person is liquidated or terminated, they may continue to be deemed as an Exempt Person from the date its liquidation or termination procedure starts until the date it is completed. This is provided that a notification has been submitted to the FTA within 20 business days from the date of the beginning of the procedures. 31 The Exempt Person shall cease to be treated as an Exempt Person on the day following the date of the completion of the liquidation or termination procedure.32

6.2. Failure is of temporary nature which is promptly rectified33

If an Exempt Person breaches the conditions to be treated as such, they may continue to be deemed as an Exempt Person where all of the following conditions are met:
* The failure to meet the conditions is due to a situation or an event beyond the Exempt Person's control which they could not reasonably have predicted or prevented.34
* The Exempt Person has made an application to the FTA to continue to be treated as an Exempt Person within 20 business days from the date they fail to meet the conditions for being an Exempt Person.35 The FTA shall review the application and notify the Exempt Person of its decision within 20 business days of the submission of the application, or following such other time required to review the application, provided that the Exempt Person has been notified.36




29 Article 4(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
30 Article 4(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
31 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
32 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
33 Article 4(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
34 Article 3(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023. 35 Article 3(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023. 36 Article 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.


* The Exempt Person rectifies the failure to meet the conditions within 20 business days from the submission of the application.37 The deadline may be extended by an additional 20 business days in the event that the failure to rectify is beyond the Exempt Person's reasonable control.38
* Upon request by the FTA, the Exempt Person provides evidence to support that there are appropriate procedures to monitor compliance with the relevant conditions of the Corporate Tax Law. The documentation should be provided to the FTA within 20 business days from the date of the request by the FTA, or any other period as may be determined by the FTA.39

6.3. Failure is to obtain Corporate Tax advantage40

The Exempt Person shall cease to be an Exempt Person starting from the day they fail to meet the conditions in case it can be reasonably concluded that the main purpose or one of the main purposes of this failure is to obtain a Corporate Tax advantage specified under the General Anti-abuse Rule that is not consistent with the intention or purpose of the Corporate Tax Law.41






























37 Article 3(1)(c) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
38 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
39 Article 3(1)(d) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
40 Article 4(6)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023
41 Article 50(2) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.


7. Corporate	Tax	consequences	of	benefitting	from Exempt Person status
A Person who qualifies as an Exempt Person under one of the categories covered in this guide, following its application being approved by the FTA, is not subject to Corporate Tax on any of its income, i.e. is completely exempt from Corporate Tax, provided they continue to meet all the requirements for exemption throughout the Tax Period.

7.1. No availability of Small Business Relief

Small Business Relief is a Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period. Small Business Relief does not apply to the Exempt Persons covered in this guide.

7.2. No availability of Qualifying Group Relief or Business Restructuring Relief

An Exempt Person cannot be a member of a Qualifying Group.42 One of the conditions for Business Restructuring Relief is that the transferor or transferee is not an Exempt Person.43 As a result, Qualifying Group Relief and Business Restructuring Relief are not available to the Exempt Persons covered in this guide.

7.3. No transfer of Tax Loss

Under the Corporate Tax Law, Tax Losses or a portion thereof may be offset against the Taxable Income of another Taxable Person upon satisfaction of certain conditions.44 One of the conditions is that the transferor or transferee is not an Exempt Person.45 Therefore, Exempt Persons covered in this guide cannot transfer any Tax Losses from their activities or Business operations to a Taxable Person.46

7.4. Exempt Person cannot be a member of a Tax Group

The Tax Group provision is intended to allow for the grouping of entities which are subject to Corporate Tax in the same manner. In line with this principle, an Exempt Person under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law cannot form or join a Tax Group.47



42 Article 26(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 43 Article 27(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 44 Article 38(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
45 Article 38(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.
46 Article 4(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
47 Article 40(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.


8. Compliance Requirements

8.1. Tax Registration

Qualifying Public Benefit Entities listed in Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023 must still register with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes and obtain a Corporate Tax Registration Number ("TRN").48 The application to register for Corporate Tax purposes for Qualifying Public Benefit Entities has been made available from 1 October 2023.49

A public benefit entity that is not listed in a Cabinet Decision as a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity will not be considered as an Exempt Person and will be a Taxable Person. As a result, it should register for Corporate Tax according to its relevant entity type, for example as a juridical person that is a Resident Person.

Public and private pension and social security funds will be required to register for Corporate Tax and obtain a TRN as they will be considered a Taxable Person.50 Once registered, a fund can make an application to the FTA to be treated as an Exempt Person from 1 June 2024. 51 Private pension and social security funds are required to meet all the relevant conditions.52 These conditions do not apply to public pensions and social security funds.

The position for wholly owned subsidiaries of the funds, which are UAE incorporated juridical persons, is the same as for the funds above. The subsidiary must register for Corporate Tax, and then make an application to the FTA to be treated as an Exempt Person, provided all the relevant conditions are met. The application to register for Corporate Tax will be available from 1 June 2024.53

8.2. Application for exemption and applicable timelines

The Person should apply for exemption within 60 business days from the end of the Tax Period in which the Person met the conditions for exemption.54

If the FTA approves the application for exemption, the exemption shall be effective from the start of the Tax Period specified in the application.55

48 Article 51(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
49 Article 2(1) of FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023.
50 Article 51(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
51 Article 2(2) of FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023 read with Article 4(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
52 Articles 2 and 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.
53 Article 2(2) of FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023 read with Article 4(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
54 Article 3(1) of FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023.
55 Article 3(2) of FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023.



The FTA may determine an alternative effective date for the exemption other than the date specified in the application where any of the following scenarios, or similar, takes place:56
a. If the Tax Period specified in the registration form is incorrect, the exemption shall be effective from the correct date.
b. If the applicant is acquired during a Tax Period by one or more Persons including a Government Entity, a Government Controlled Entity, a Qualifying Investment Fund or a public or private pension fund/social security fund, the exemption shall not be granted from the start of the Tax Period if the conditions for exemption were not met at that time. The FTA shall determine another date from which the exemption shall be granted to ensure that the date of exemption starts after the fulfilment of all remaining tax obligations.
c. If the Tax Period included in the application for exemption is incorrect and the FTA receives sufficient supporting information to evidence that the conditions have been met within the later Tax Period, the exemption shall be effective after the date of fulfilment of the conditions.
d. Any other instances that may be further specified by a decision issued by the Cabinet.

8.3. Administration

Exempt Persons are not required to file a Tax Return. Instead, the Exempt Persons covered by this guide are required to submit an annual declaration to the FTA, no later than 9 months from the end of the relevant Tax Period. This declaration must confirm that the Exempt Person continues to fulfil the relevant exemption conditions, and that their records with the FTA are still valid.57

Where an entity no longer meets the conditions to be an Exempt Person, they must file a Tax Return with the FTA within 9 months from the end of the relevant Tax Period.58

8.4. Confirmation by the Auditor

The Auditor of a private pension fund or social security fund is required to confirm annually that the requirements for the fund to be exempt have been complied with. The auditor's annual confirmation of the compliance of the fund, will need to be provided to the fund. The fund will then provide this to the FTA.


56 Article 3(3) of FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023
57 Article 2 of FTA Decision No. 11 of 2023.
58 Article 53(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


8.5. Record keeping required to maintain Exempt Person status

Exempt Persons are required to maintain records which evidence their exempt status for 7 years from the end of the Tax Period to which they relate.59 This includes any information, accounts, documents and records to enable the Exempt Person's status to be readily ascertained by the FTA.

Each Exempt Person should consider the conditions attached to their Exempt Person status and maintain any records relevant to ascertaining continued compliance with those conditions. For example, for a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity, this could include books and records to demonstrate that its resources were used only for its stated public benefit purpose, copies of agreements entered into, and details of its employees, officers and fiduciaries.








































59 Article 56(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


9. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
December 2023
* First version

	











Taxation of Extractive Business and Non- Extractive Natural Resource Business
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGEPX1

December 2023


Contents
1. Glossary	3
2. Introduction	7
2.1. Overview	7
2.2. Purpose of this guide	7
2.3. Who should read this guide?	7
2.4. How to use this guide	7
2.5. Legislative references	8
2.6. Status of this guide	9
3. Scope of Extractive Business and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business	10
3.1. What are Natural Resources?	10
3.2. What is an Extractive Business?	10
3.3. What is a Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business?	11
3.4. Other Business	11
3.5. Process for exploiting Natural Resources	11
4. Taxation of Extractive Business and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business	13
4.1. Introduction	13
4.2. Conditions to qualify as an Exempt Person	13
4.2.1. Directly or indirectly holding or having an interest in a right, concession or Licence	14
4.2.2. Effectively subject to Emirate-level taxation	16
4.2.3. Notification to the Ministry of Finance	17
4.2.4. Solely deriving income from Persons undertaking Business or Business Activity 17
4.3. Exceptional cases of failure to meet conditions of Exempt Person	19
4.3.1. Liquidation or termination	19
4.3.2. Failure to meet condition is of temporary nature which is promptly rectified	20
4.3.3. Failure to meet the conditions is to obtain a Corporate Tax advantage	20
4.4. Income derived from other Business	21
4.5. Exemption for other Business	21
4.5.1. Ancillary or incidental Business	21

4.5.2. Revenue not exceeding five percent of the total Revenue	22
5. Determination of Taxable Income of other Business	26
5.1. Treatment as separate entities	26
5.1.1. Other Business treated independently	26
5.1.2. Taxable Income calculated independently	26
5.2. Apportionment of expenditure	27
5.2.1. Apportionment of common expenditure	28
5.3. Adjustments to determine Taxable Income	30
5.3.1. Provisions applicable to the Exempt Person's other Business	30
5.3.2. Provisions not applicable to the Exempt Person's Business	32
5.4. Small Business Relief	33
5.5. Exempt Persons registered in Free Zones	33
6. Compliance Requirements	35
6.1. Record keeping	35
6.2. Tax Registration	35
6.3. Applicable Accounting Standards	36
6.4. Preparing audited Financial Statements	36
6.5. Tax Return	36
7. Updates and Amendments	37

1. Glossary

Accounting Income: The accounting net profit or loss for the relevant Tax Period as per the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.

AED: The United Arab Emirates dirham.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business Restructuring Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for business restructuring transactions, available under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.

Connected Person: Any Person affiliated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 36(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Exempt Income: Any income exempt from Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Exempt Person: A Person exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Extractive Business: The Business or Business Activity of exploring, extracting, removing, or otherwise producing and exploiting the Natural Resources of the UAE, or any interest therein as determined by the Minister.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the accounting standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.


Foreign Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence outside the UAE of a Resident Person that is determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed in Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a non-resident person registered in a Free Zone.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.

IFRS for SMEs: International Financial Reporting Standard for small and medium- sized entities.

Licence: A document issued by a licensing authority under which a Business or Business Activity is conducted in the UAE.

Local Government: Any of the governments of the Member Emirates of the Federation.

Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.

Minister: Minister of Finance.

Natural Resources: Water, oil, gas, coal, naturally formed minerals, and other non- renewable, non-living natural resources that may be extracted from the UAE's Territory.

Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business: The Business or Business Activity of separating, treating, refining, processing, storing, transporting, marketing or distributing the Natural Resources of the UAE.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.


Qualifying Free Zone Person: A Free Zone Person that meets the conditions of Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law and is subject to Corporate Tax under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Group: Two or more Taxable Persons that meet the conditions of Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Group Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for transfers within a Qualifying Group, available under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.

Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

Tax Group: Two or more Taxable Persons treated as a single Taxable Person according to the conditions of Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Loss: Any negative Taxable Income as calculated under the Corporate Tax Law for a given Tax Period.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Registration: A procedure under which a Person registers for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.



UAE: United Arab Emirates.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on Extractive Businesses and Non- Extractive Natural Resource Businesses for Corporate Tax purposes. It provides readers with an overview of:

* Scope of the Corporate Tax exemption for Extractive Businesses and Non- Extractive Natural Resource Businesses
* How the Corporate Tax rules apply to Extractive Businesses and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses.
* How the Taxable Income of any other Business of an Extractive Business or Non- Extractive Natural Resource Business is determined.
* Compliance requirements for Extractive Businesses and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses under the Corporate Tax Law.

2.3. Who should read this guide?

This guide should be read by any Person that is carrying on an Extractive Business and/or a Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business in the UAE. It is intended to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further


guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Corporate Tax Law apply to Extractive Businesses and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses. The examples in the guide:
- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:

* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments, is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Cabinet Decision No. 100 of 2023 on Determining Qualifying Income for the Qualifying Free Zone Person for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 100 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023 Concerning Exception from Tax Registration for the Purpose of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief for the Purposes of the Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023 on the Determination of Categories of Taxable Persons Required to Prepare and Maintain Audited Financial Statements for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023 on the Determination of the Conditions under which a Person may Continue to be Deemed as an Exempt Person, or Cease to be Deemed as an Exempt Person from a Different Date for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023";


* Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023"; and
* Ministerial Decision No. 265 of 2023 Regarding Qualifying Activities and Excluded Activities for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 265 of 2023".

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the tax implications for Extractive Businesses and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses relating to the Corporate Tax regime in the UAE. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. Scope	of	Extractive	Business	and	Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business
3.1. What are Natural Resources?

For Corporate Tax purposes, Natural Resources are defined as water, oil, gas, coal, naturally formed minerals and other non-renewable, non-living natural resources that may be extracted from the UAE's Territory (being the UAE's lands, territorial sea and airspace above it).1

Natural Resources do not include renewable resources such as solar energy, wind, animals, and plant materials.

The UAE Constitution considers the Natural Resources exploited in each Emirate to be the public property of that Emirate.2

3.2. What is an Extractive Business?

An Extractive Business is defined in the Corporate Tax Law as the Business or Business Activity of exploring, extracting, removing, or otherwise producing and exploiting the Natural Resources of the UAE or any interest therein as determined by the Minister.3 The sector engaging in Extractive Business is commonly referred to as the exploration and production sector, and in general terms includes upstream activities such as oil and gas extraction, mining, dredging, and quarrying.4

An Extractive Business is conducted through a right, concession or Licence issued by a Local Government.

Persons engaged in an Extractive Business are typically:
* Juridical persons that are privately or government owned; or
* Contractual joint ventures between a Local Government and private sector enterprises by way of a Licence or concession agreement with the relevant Government Entity to undertake Extractive Business.





1 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law. 2 Article 23 of the UAE Constitution. 3 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
4 Upstream refers to points in extractive production that originate early on in the process. Also called exploration and production.


3.3. What is a Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business?

Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business is defined in the Corporate Tax Law as the Business or Business Activity of separating, treating, refining, processing, storing, transporting, marketing or distributing the Natural Resources of the UAE.5

In general terms, in the context of the oil and gas sector, it covers activities that form part of the midstream and downstream subsectors but only to the point where the product is transferred to the Person who engages in Business with the end-user or customer.6

A Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business is conducted through a right, concession or Licence issued by a Local Government.

Persons engaged in a Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business are typically companies that are wholly or partially privately or government owned pursuant to concessions or commercial agreements. These agreements may provide that the income from the Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business is subject to taxation at the Emirate level.

3.4. Other Business

A Person engaged in an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business may also engage in Business Activities that are not part of its main Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business. For the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law, those other Business Activities collectively are considered to constitute a separate Business and should be subject to separate and independent reporting.

3.5. Process for exploiting Natural Resources

The process for exploiting Natural Resources for economic purposes is typically divided into three phases:
* The upstream process includes identifying, extracting, or producing materials.
* The midstream process links the upstream and downstream processes and includes such activities such as transportation and storage services.
* The downstream process is close to the end-user or consumer and involves post- production activities. In the oil industry, for example, companies engaged in the


5 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
6 Midstream refers to activities taking place between the upstream and downstream operations. Downstream refers to activities that are close to the end-user or consumer in the production supply chain.


downstream process include oil refineries, petroleum product distributors, petrochemical plants, natural gas distributors, and retail outlets.


4. Taxation of Extractive Business and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business
4.1. Introduction

The Corporate Tax Law provides that in general a Person engaged in an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business is exempt from Corporate Tax and referred to as an Exempt Person.7 This exemption respects the sovereignty of the Emirates over their Natural Resources and prevents taxation being imposed at both the Emirate and Federal level on the same type of income. However, the relevant Person needs to meet the criteria in the Corporate Tax Law to qualify for the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business exemption, respectively, in order to be considered an Exempt Person.

The Corporate Tax Law accepts that an Exempt Person engaged in an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, may also be engaged in other Business. The existence of the other Business will not affect the exemption for the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business. However, the income from the other Business will generally be subject to Corporate Tax, unless that other Business itself specifically qualifies for a distinct Corporate Tax exemption.

4.2. Conditions to qualify as an Exempt Person

A Person engaged in an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, will be exempt from Corporate Tax on that Business if it meets the following conditions:8
1. The Person directly or indirectly holds an interest in a right, concession or Licence issued by a Local Government to undertake the Extractive Business/Non- Extractive Natural Resource Business, in the UAE.
2. The Person is effectively subject to tax under the applicable legislation of the Local Government.
3. The Person has made a notification to the Ministry of Finance in the form and manner agreed with the Local Government.

For a Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, there is an additional condition to be met:
4. The Person's income from its Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business is derived solely from Persons that undertake a Business or Business Activity.

These conditions are discussed below.

7 Article 4(1)(c) and (d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
8 Articles 7(1) and 8(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


4.2.1. Directly or indirectly holding or having an interest in a right, concession or Licence

The first condition requires that the Person directly or indirectly holds or has an interest in a right, concession or Licence issued by a Local Government for its Extractive Business and/or Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business.9

Each Local Government is responsible for regulating the activities of exploration and production of its Natural Resources, as well as related activities beyond the exploration and production of the Natural Resources.

Rights to the activities falling under an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business are typically awarded by way of a Licence or concession agreement that is concluded with the relevant Local Government. However, certain aspects of the Natural Resources sector are federally regulated.

The reference to "directly or indirectly" in Articles 7 and 8 of the Corporate Tax Law recognises that the procedures for obtaining relevant rights to Natural Resources vary between the Emirates and are established on a case-by-case basis. A Person may be or become a holder or beneficiary under a Natural Resources Licence or concession agreement by virtue of assignment, participation or sub-participation.


9 Articles 7(1)(a) and 8(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


In this situation, Company B directly holds the Licence. Therefore, it is exempt from Corporate Tax in respect of its Extractive Business operations within Emirate A.

Indirectly holding a Licence:

Company B is interested in expanding its operations to Emirate B, another region with rich mineral deposits. It decides to collaborate with a local company, Company C, which already holds a valid mining Licence in Emirate B that allows Company C to assign or partner with other companies under the Licence granted to it, to exploit Natural Resources.

Company B enters into a partnership agreement with Company C. In this agreement, Company B provides significant financial investment and technical expertise, while Company C contributes its existing mining Licence and local operational knowledge. In return, Company B gains a share of the profits generated by mining activities in Emirate B and is effectively subject to tax under the applicable legislation of Emirate B.

In this situation, Company B indirectly benefits from the mining Licence held by Company C in Emirate B. In a situation where Company B would not have had its own Licence, Company B would still have indirectly benefited from the mining Licence held by Company C.

The exemption from Corporate Tax should also apply to Company B's Extractive Business operations in Emirate B as it indirectly holds a Licence issued by the respective Local Government.

4.2.1.1. Contractors, subcontractors or suppliers

An Exempt Person that meets the relevant conditions may engage another Person to undertake part of the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business.

The Corporate Tax exemption for an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, does not extend to other Persons such as contractors, subcontractors or suppliers that do not in their own right meet the conditions to be exempt under Article 7 or 8 of the Corporate Tax Law.10 To benefit from the exemption, a Person must hold a direct or indirect interest in the underlying Natural Resources Licence or concession agreement and not merely be engaged to provide goods or services to a Person holding such an interest.



10 Articles 7(7) and 8(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 2: Contractors, subcontractors and suppliers

Company A is engaged in oil exploration activities and meets all the criteria for the Corporate Tax exemption for an Extractive Business in accordance with Article 7 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Company A, in its exploration operations, requires specialised equipment and services for drilling and geological surveying. Instead of investing in and managing these activities itself, Company A engages Company B, a specialised drilling and surveying firm, to undertake the drilling part of its exploration activities. Company B has the role of a service provider and is not considered a partner in the exploration activities of Company A.

The outcome would be as follows:
* Company A: The income generated by Company A from its exploration activities remains eligible for the Extractive Business Corporate Tax exemption, as long as it meets all of the qualifying conditions.
* Company B: The income generated by Company B from performing the drilling activities on behalf of Company A will not be eligible for the Extractive Business Corporate Tax exemption. Instead, Company B's income will be subject to Corporate Tax as per the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.

In such a situation, even though Company A is engaging another entity (Company B) to perform a specific part of the drilling work, the Corporate Tax exemption does not extend to Company B as it does not hold an interest in the underlying Natural Resources exploration Licence or concession agreement.

4.2.2. Effectively subject to Emirate-level taxation

The second condition requires that the Person is effectively subject to tax under the applicable legislation of the relevant Emirate.11

The taxation of Natural Resource activities is regulated by the individual Emirates and is typically set on a case-by-case basis under the relevant concession agreement or similar arrangement with the Local Government.

"Effectively subject to tax" means that the Person is being taxed by the relevant Local Government. This could be an income tax levied under the relevant Emirate-level tax decree, a royalty on production or sales or other fiscal measure as per the agreement entered into with the relevant Local Government, or other form of tax, charge or levy issued by the same Local Government. The term "effectively subject to tax" under the

11 Articles 7(1)(b) and 8(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.


applicable legislation of an Emirate should be interpreted widely, and may include any form of tax, charge or levy payable on income, profits or revenues.12

Example 3: Subject to Emirate-level taxation

Company A is part of a multinational group specialising in crude oil exploration, operating in the UAE. In this scenario, Company A has obtained exploration and exploitation rights from Emirate A to search for and extract oil from a designated area within the Emirate's territory and has entered into an agreement with the respective Local Government for that purpose.

As part of the agreement, Company A is required to pay a royalty to the respective Local Government for each barrel of oil extracted from the designated area. The royalty rate is set at 10% of the Market Value of the oil extracted.

Example Calculation:

For the period 1 January to 31 December 2024, Company A successfully extracts 100,000 barrels of oil from its designated area. The Market Value of the oil is AED 32,000,000.

Company A pays a royalty of AED 3,200,000 to the Local Government of Emirate A for the oil extracted during that period. Company A is considered to be effectively subject to tax at the level of the relevant Local Government and the subject to tax requirement is met for the purpose of the exemption from Corporate Tax.

4.2.3. Notification to the Ministry of Finance

The third condition requires that the Person has notified the Ministry of Finance in the form and manner agreed with the Local Government.13

The purpose of this notification is to ensure that the Person has fulfilled the relevant requirements and validated its exempt status as per the Corporate Tax Law.

4.2.4. Solely deriving income from Persons undertaking Business or Business Activity

The fourth condition applies only to a Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business. The Person must derive income from that Business solely from Persons that undertake a

12 Articles 7(6) and 8(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.
13 Articles 7(1)(c) and 8(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Business or Business Activity.14 The exemption from Corporate Tax will not apply if the Person's Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business engages in transactions with Persons that do not undertake a Business or Business Activity (for example, end customers or consumers). The test does not have a minimum threshold, so a single transaction can result in the Person not meeting the exemption criteria.

In considering the condition, the Person's Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business must be distinguished from any other Business that the Person conducts. The requirement to derive income solely from Persons that undertake a Business or Business Activity applies only to transactions related to the Person's Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business.

A Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business needs to be conducted through a relevant right, concession or Licence issued by a Local Government. Transactions related to the activities permitted under that right, concession or Licence would generally be considered to form part of that Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, unless those transactions relate to a Business that is conducted separately and independently (for example, subject to separate management and accounting records) of the Business that directly exploits that right, concession or Licence.






14 Article 8(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.




4.3. Exceptional cases of failure to meet conditions of Exempt Person

To qualify as an Exempt Person, the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, must fulfil the conditions discussed under Section 4.2. If these conditions are not satisfied at any time during a Tax Period, the Person will generally cease to be an Exempt Person from the beginning of that Tax Period.15 However, an Exempt Person may continue to be an Exempt Person, or cease to be an Exempt Person from a different date, if the conditions discussed below apply.

4.3.1. Liquidation or termination

If an Exempt Person is in the process of being liquidated or terminated, it may continue to be deemed as an Exempt Person from the date its liquidation or termination procedure starts until the date it is completed if it submits a notification to the FTA within 20 business days from the date of the beginning of the procedures. 16 The Exempt Person shall cease to be treated as such on the day following the date of the completion of the liquidation or termination procedure.17









15 Article 4(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
16 Articles 4(6)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
17 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.


4.3.2. Failure to meet condition is of temporary nature which is promptly rectified

An Exempt Person who breaches the conditions to be an Exempt Person may continue to be deemed an Exempt Person if the failure to meet the conditions is of a temporary nature and will be promptly rectified.18 In this case, the following conditions must be met:
* The failure to meet the conditions is due to a situation or an event beyond the Exempt Person's control which could not reasonably have been predicted or prevented.19
* The Exempt Person has made an application to the FTA to continue to be treated as an Exempt Person within 20 business days from the date it fails to meet the relevant conditions.20 The FTA shall review the application and notify the Exempt Person of its decision within 20 business days of the submission of the application. If a longer time is necessary, the Exempt Person will be notified.21
* The Exempt Person is reasonably expected to rectify the failure to meet the conditions within 20 business days from the submission of the application.22 The deadline may be extended by an additional 20 business days if such failure is beyond the Exempt Person's reasonable control.23
* Upon request by the FTA, the Exempt Person must provide evidence that it has taken measures to monitor compliance with the relevant conditions for being an Exempt Person, within 20 business days from the date of the request by the FTA, or any other period as may be determined.24

4.3.3. Failure to meet the conditions is to obtain a Corporate Tax advantage

Although an Exempt Person would generally be treated as ceasing to be exempt from the beginning of the relevant Tax Period, an Exempt Person will cease to be considered as such in specific instances as prescribed by the Minister.25 Accordingly, the person shall cease to be deemed as an Exempt Person starting from the day it fails to meet the conditions where it can be reasonably concluded by the FTA that the main purpose (or one of the main purposes) for ceasing to meet the conditions, is to obtain a Corporate Tax advantage (as specified in Article 50(2) of the Corporate Tax Law) that is not consistent with the intention or purpose of the Corporate Tax Law.26

18 Article 4(6)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
19 Article 3(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023. 20 Article 3(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023. 21 Article 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
22 Article 3(1)(c) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
23 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
24 Article 3(1)(d) of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.
25 Article 4(6)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
26 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 105 of 2023.


4.4. Income derived from other Business

If a Person engaged in an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business is also engaged in another Business, the income from that other Business will be subject to Corporate Tax, unless that other Business qualifies for a Corporate Tax exemption under any other relevant provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.

To determine whether a transaction relates to a Person's Extractive Business/Non- Extractive Natural Resource Business, or to their other Business, the following conditions apply:
* A transaction that relates to a Business Activity that falls within the scope of the right, concession or Licence issued by the Local Government should be considered to relate to the Business performed under that right, concession or Licence, unless the Business Activity is conducted independently of the primary Business.
* A transaction that relates to a Business Activity that does not fall within the scope of the right, concession or Licence issued by the Local Government should be treated as a separate Business. This will also apply to transactions relating to activities conducted by an Extractive Business that are outside the UAE's Territory.

4.5. Exemption for other Business

If a Person has derived income from a Business that by nature is ancillary or incidental to the Person's Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business and the Revenue of that Business does not exceed 5% of the total Revenue of that Person in the same Tax Period, then that income will be disregarded for Corporate Tax purposes.27

4.5.1. Ancillary or incidental Business

A Business may be considered ancillary if it is necessary for the performance of the main activities of the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business or where it makes a minor contribution and is so closely related to the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business that it should not be regarded as a separate Business. An example of this could be selling waste products generated by oil and gas production.

A Business may be considered incidental if it is infrequent and not part of the main activities of the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, and generates a secondary source of income. An example of this could be occasional sales of surplus equipment or interest on excess funds invested.


All facts and circumstances must be considered in determining whether the Business is ancillary or incidental to the Person's Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business and relevant factors may include its size, value, duration and frequency.

If it is determined that the Business is not ancillary or incidental to the Person's Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, then that Business will be treated as separate from the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business and will be subject to Corporate Tax.

4.5.2. Revenue not exceeding five percent of the total Revenue

An additional condition of the ancillary or incidental condition under Section 4.5.1 is for the aggregate income of such ancillary or incidental Business not to exceed 5% of the total Revenue of that Person in the same Tax Period.28 In practice, the Person would determine whether it exceeded the 5% threshold at the end of its Financial Year.

Where the above threshold is exceeded, then the other Business is treated as separate from the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business and subject to Corporate Tax.

Both conditions under this Section and Section 4.5.1 need to be fulfilled in order for the other Business to be exempt for Corporate Tax as per Articles 7(3) and 8(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.



Example 6: Ancillary or incidental test - Extractive Business investing surplus cash

Company B is an Extractive Business that meets all the requirements to be exempt from Corporate Tax in accordance with Article 7 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Company B conducts gas extraction under a Licence issued by Emirate A.

Besides its Extractive Licence, Company B has not acquired any other Licence to conduct any other activity in the UAE.

Company B actively seeks to mitigate the risks to its cash flow. Accordingly, it has implemented a treasury strategy led by an experienced finance manager.

During its Financial Years ending 31 December 2024 and 2025, Company B generates Revenue as follows:

1. Income from gas extraction;
2. Interest earned from placing cash generated by its Extractive Business on deposit with UAE banks;
3. Dividends earned from regular investments of surplus cash in UAE listed companies that are Resident Persons;
4. Gain from the disposal of used equipment (used by Company A in its Extractive Business) to a third party.

No.
Income type
Source of income
2024
2025



Amount of income earned (AED
'000)
Percentage of total Revenue
Amount of income earned (AED '000)
Percentage of total Revenue
1
Gas extraction income
Main Business Activity as	per
Licence
20,000
97.56%
20,790
94.5%
2
Interest income
Fixed term deposit in a	local
bank
100
0.49%
330
1.5%
3
Dividend income
Dividend
from UAE quoted
300
1.46%
770
3.5%




companie
s




4
Capital gain
Sale	of used equipme
nt
100
0.49%
110
0.5%
Total
20,500
100%
22,000
100%

Income stream 1 is generated from the Extractive Business Activity. As Company B has met all relevant criteria, this income is exempt from Corporate Tax.

Income streams 2, 3 and 4 are not directly generated from the main Business Activity that falls within the scope of the Licence issued to Company B by Emirate A (i.e., gas extraction) and are not subject to taxation at the Emirate level. As a result, the treatment of the Interest, Dividend and capital gain income for Corporate Income Tax purposes will be subject to the ancillary or incidental test.

Testing the first "ancillary or incidental" condition, the type of income test:
Interest, Dividend and capital gain income are not generated from separate Business Activities. They arise in the course of conducting the Extractive Business Activity, as a result of policies aimed at maintaining liquidity. Therefore, in this case, the income can be viewed as derived from Business that is ancillary or incidental to the Extractive Business. Hence, income streams 2, 3 and 4 meet the first condition of the "ancillary or incidental" test.

Testing the second "ancillary or incidental" condition, the 5% condition:
The table below shows the percentage of the ancillary or incidental Business to the total Revenue.

No.
Income type
2024
2025
2
Interest income
0.49%
1.5%
3
Dividend income
1.46%
3.5%
4
Capital gain
0.49%
0.5%
Total
2.44%
5.5%

As all Non-Extractive Business income is treated as a single other Business, the 5% threshold is tested on an aggregate basis rather than for each income stream separately.

In 2024, as the sum of income streams 2, 3 and 4 has not exceeded 5% of Company B's total Revenue, the second condition of the "ancillary or incidental" test is met. In this year, they will not be subject to the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.




If the Exempt Person is subject to Corporate Tax on their other Business, the Person will be required to register with the FTA for Corporate Tax with regards to that other Business as discussed in Section 6.2.

Where the Exempt Person is a Resident Person and has a Foreign Permanent Establishment, which comprises other Business and which falls outside the exemption in relation to other Business referred to above, then the income from such Foreign Permanent Establishment would be subject to Corporate Tax and the rules of the Corporate Tax Law in relation to a Foreign Permanent Establishment will apply.29

Where the income from the other Business is subject to Corporate Tax, the Taxable Income will be determined as discussed in Section 5.
























29 Article 24 of the Corporate Tax Law.


5. Determination of Taxable Income of other Business

If a Person engaged in an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, is also engaged in other Business, various rules apply to determine the Taxable Income deriving from that other Business.

5.1. Treatment as separate entities

The Taxable Income of the Person's other Business is governed by the rules in Article 7(4) and Article 8(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. Those rules provide that for the purposes of calculating the Taxable Income of the Person's other Business, the other Business is treated as an independent Business, and the Person should maintain its Financial Statements separately from the Financial Statements for the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business.30

5.1.1. Other Business treated independently

If the Exempt Person has another Business that is subject to Corporate Tax, all Business Activities that the Person performs that are not part of its Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business are collectively treated as part of that other Business for Corporate Tax purposes and treated as distinct and separate from the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business.

5.1.2. Taxable Income calculated independently

For the purpose of calculating the other Business's Taxable Income, this other Business should be treated as a distinct and separate entity operating in its own right. This means that the books of accounts, income, expenditure, payable and receivable balances, etc., should be determined separately, for which separate Financial Statements are prepared and Taxable Income is calculated according to the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.31

Transactions between the other Business and the Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, are Related Party transactions for Corporate Tax purposes.32







30 Articles 7(4)(a) and 8(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 31 Articles 7(4)(c) and 8(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 32 Articles 7(5) and 8(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 7: Treatment as a separate entity

Company A operates both a Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business and a Business subject to Corporate Tax, as follows:
* Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business: Company A is engaged in the processing and refining of rare minerals that are extracted from mines within the UAE. They separate, refine, and process these minerals into valuable products that are used in various industrial Businesses, such as electronics and aerospace. Company A's Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business fulfils all of the conditions to be exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 8(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
* Other Business: In addition to its Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, Company A also conducts a Business that specialises in providing consulting services for sustainable mining practices. It offers expertise and guidance to other mining companies to help them minimise their environmental impact and promote responsible resource extraction. This other Business is not considered ancillary or incidental to its Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business.

In accordance with the "separate entity" approach,33 the following applies:
* Financial Statements: Company A would need to maintain distinct Financial Statements for the other Business. The Financial Statements for the consulting Business would track the Revenue, expenses, etc. related to the consulting services provided.
* Calculation of Taxable Income: The Taxable Income for the other Business would be calculated separately. Thus, the Taxable Income for the consulting Business would be based on its own financial performance, without being influenced by the mineral processing activities that are exempt from Corporate Tax. Any transactions between the Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business and the other Business must be in accordance with the arm's length principle.

By treating the other Business as a distinct and separate entity, Company A ensures that the Corporate Tax liability, and the Corporate Tax reporting requirements of the consulting Business, are not impacted by the Exempt Business which deals with mineral processing and refining.

5.2. Apportionment of expenditure

Forms of expenditure that can be separately identified and assigned to the Business to which they relate i.e. Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business and the taxable other Business, must be directly attributed accordingly. This


33 Articles 7(4) and 8(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.


may be done, for example, based on the nature and type of expense incurred. This is direct attribution and should be the general rule to be applied in relation to direct expenditure.

The apportionment of indirect or common expenditure is discussed below.

5.2.1. Apportionment of common expenditure

When determining the Taxable Income for the other Business of the Person engaged in an Extractive/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, it may occur that certain expenditures relate to both the Extractive/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business and the taxable other Business (i.e. common expenditure).

In such a situation, an appropriate apportionment method needs to be established. The two options applicable in this case are outlined below.
5.2.1.1. Revenue-based apportionment method

Common expenditures can be apportioned according to the Revenue of each Business (Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business and the taxable other Business, respectively) in a Tax Period.34 Such apportionment should be done using the following formula:

Revenue of other Businessx100 Total Revenue

100% - R1 = R2

R1: Percentage (%) of expenditure attributable to the other Business subject to Corporate Tax
R2: Percentage (%) of expenditure attributable to the Exempt Business

5.2.1.2. Relevant Emirate apportionment method

The above apportionment method of common expenditure will be overridden where a specific proportion is defined by the relevant local laws of the respective Emirate for the purpose of calculating the Emirate-level tax payable in respect of the Extractive/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business.




34 Articles 7(4)(b) and 8(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


In this scenario, the apportionment rules of the relevant Emirate would prevail and the allocation should follow such ratio.35

It is recognised that any apportionment of common expenditure should be done at the end of a Tax Period when the total Revenue is known.

Example 8: Apportionment of common expenditure

Company A conducts two Businesses: a mining Business (Extractive Business) and a technology consulting Business (considered other Business) in Emirate A. Company A fulfils all of the conditions to be considered an Exempt Person for its mining activities and has its first Tax Period from 1 January - 31 December 2024 (Tax Period 2024).36 In the Tax Period 2024, Company A has total Revenue (for its Extractive Business and other Business) of AED 1,500,000, of which AED 400,000 is from the technology consulting Business.

In the Tax Period 2024, Company A incurs a common annual expenditure for office rent of AED 200,000, which cannot be directly attributed to either the mining Business or the technology consulting Business.

According to the Corporate Tax Law, normally in such case, common expenditures should be divided based on the Revenue generated by each Business during that Tax Period. In such a situation, Company A would perform the following calculation.

* AED 400,000 = Revenue of the other Business
* AED 1,500,000 = Total Revenue
* AED 200,000 = Common expenditure

400,000
1,500,000 x 100 = 26.67% (R1)
100 - 26.67% = 73.33% (R2)

* AED 200,000 x 26.67% = AED 53,340 (common expenditure attributable to the other Business)
* AED 200,000 x 73.33% = AED 146,660 (common expenditure attributable to the Exempt Business)

However, in this case, the applicable legislation in Emirate A allows Company A to consider a different proportion for the purposes of calculating the tax payable in




5.3. Adjustments to determine Taxable Income

5.3.1. Provisions applicable to the Exempt Person's other Business

The Taxable Income of the other Business of the Exempt Person should be determined through a separate calculation for each Tax Period in accordance with the general provisions of the Corporate Tax Law, including the provisions governing the various reliefs granted by the Corporate Tax Law, if applicable.38

Generally, the Accounting Income is the starting point for determining Taxable Income for a particular Tax Period, which is then adjusted for the following:
* Unrealised gains or losses;39
* Exempt Income;40
* Qualifying Group Relief and/or Business Restructuring Relief;41
* Deductions;42
* Transfer pricing adjustments relating to transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons;43
* Tax Losses; 44 and
* Other adjustments.45


37 Articles 7(4)(b) and 8(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
38 Article 7(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 39 Article 20(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 40 Article 20(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 41 Article 20(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 42 Article 20(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 43 Article 20(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.



In the case of the taxable other Business of the Exempt Person, the adjustments to be made to the Accounting Income are the same as for other Taxable Persons.

Adjustments to the Taxable Income that may be relevant to the other Business, as well as those that are not applicable to the other Business of the Exempt Person are described below.

5.3.1.1. Deductions

As the taxable other Business of the Exempt Person should be treated as a separate and distinct Business,46 the rules for deductibility of expenditure should apply to the other Business of the Exempt Person.47

In the case of apportionment of common expenditure between the Exempt Person's other Business and its Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business (see Section 5.2.1), deductions under Article 28(3) of the Corporate Tax Law may be allowed.

5.3.1.2. Transfer pricing adjustments relating to transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons

As stated in the previous sections of this Guide, transactions between the taxable Business and other activities conducted by the Exempt Person in relation to its Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business, are treated as Related Party transactions (unless the other Business is exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 7 or 8 from the Corporate Tax Law) and must meet the arm's length principle.48 This requires the results of those transactions to be consistent with the results that would have been realised if Persons who were not Related Parties had engaged in similar transactions under similar circumstances.49

The Exempt Person is subject to the transfer pricing documentation requirements under Article 55 of the Corporate Tax Law in relation to arrangements between its taxable Business and the Exempt Business or its Related Party.








46 Articles 7(4)(a) and 8(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
47 Chapter Nine of the Corporate Tax Law.
48 Articles 7(5) and 8(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
49 Article 34(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.3.2. Provisions not applicable to the Exempt Person's Business

The Taxable Income of the Exempt Person's other Business should be determined on an independent basis for each Tax Period in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.50 However, certain reliefs and Tax Loss provisions will not apply to the other Business of the Exempt Person,51 as described below.

5.3.2.1. No availability of Qualifying Group Relief or Business Restructuring Relief

One of the conditions for Qualifying Group Relief is that members of the group should not include an Exempt Person. 52 Similarly, one of the conditions for Business Restructuring Relief is that the transferor and transferee are not an Exempt Person.53

Extractive Businesses/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses will be considered a Taxable Person insofar as they have taxable Business. However, they are treated as an Exempt Person for Qualifying Group Relief and Business Restructuring Relief and will not be able to benefit from these reliefs.54

5.3.2.2. No transfer of Tax Loss

Under the Corporate Tax Law, Tax Losses may be offset against the Taxable Income of another Taxable Person upon satisfaction of certain conditions. 55 One of the conditions is that both Persons (transferor and transferee) are not an Exempt Person.

Persons engaged in Extractive Businesses/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses are Taxable Persons insofar they are conducting a taxable Business. However, they are treated as Exempt Persons for the purposes of transferring a Tax Loss or a portion thereof and thus Tax Losses arising from their taxable Business cannot be transferred to another Taxable Person.56








50 Articles 7(4)(c) and 8(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
51 Article 4(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
52 Article 26(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 53 Article 27(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 54 Article 4(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
55 Article 38(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
56 Article 4(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.3.2.3. No membership in Tax Group for Extractive Business and Non- Extractive Natural Resource Business

Two or more Taxable Persons can make an application to the FTA to be treated as a single Taxable Person (i.e. as a Tax Group), upon satisfaction of certain conditions. One of the conditions is that a member of a Tax Group is not an Exempt Person.57

Persons engaged in an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business may satisfy the conditions (see Section 4.2) to be treated as Exempt Persons,58 but at the same time also be Taxable Persons in respect of other Business or Business Activity subject to Corporate Tax (see Section 5.1). However, for the purposes of the Tax Group provisions, such Persons are still treated as Exempt Persons and cannot be members of a Tax Group.59

5.4. Small Business Relief

A Resident Person may elect to be treated as not having derived any Taxable Income for a Tax Period if its Revenue for the relevant Tax Period and in any previous Tax Periods does not exceed AED 3 million.60

If the Revenue from the taxable Business of a Person engaged in Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business does not exceed AED 3 million during the relevant Tax Period and previous Tax Periods, it can elect for the Small Business Relief, provided the other applicable conditions are also satisfied.61

5.5. Exempt Persons registered in Free Zones

If the Business Activities of a Free Zone Person consist solely of Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business that fulfils the conditions to be exempt from Corporate Tax, that Free Zone Person will not be considered as a Qualifying Free Zone Person as per Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law, as the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law as a whole will not apply to such Person.62 This is because as per Article 7 or Article 8, respectively, of the Corporate Tax Law, the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall not apply to a Person whose Business Activities consist solely of an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business that fulfils the conditions to be exempt from Corporate Tax.


57 Article 40(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.
58 Articles 7(1) and 8(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
59 Article 4(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
60 Article 21(1) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
61 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
62 Articles 7(1) and 8(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


However, if the Free Zone Person engaged in an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business derives income that is not exempt from Corporate Tax as per Article 7 or Article 8 of the Corporate Tax Law or derives other Business which is subject to Corporate Tax, then, in relation to such Business the Free Zone Person may be a Qualifying Free Zone Person, provided all the conditions of Article 18(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are met.

In determining whether a Free Zone Person meets the de minimis requirements specified in Article 4 of Cabinet Decision No. 100 of 2023 and Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 265 of 2023, Revenue from an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business that is exempt from Corporate Tax is not taken into account.


6. Compliance Requirements

6.1. Record keeping

A Person engaged in an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business that meets the conditions in Section 4.2 above for an exemption from Corporate Tax is an Exempt Person.63

An Exempt Person is required to maintain all records and documents that enable the FTA to ascertain the exemption status for a period of 7 years following the end of the Tax Period to which the exemption is claimed.64

6.2. Tax Registration

A Person that is an Exempt Person, by virtue of Article 7 or Article 8 of the Corporate Tax Law, is not required to register for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA, unless it conducts other Business subject to Corporate Tax.65

If the Exempt Person is subject to Corporate Tax on their other Business, the Person will be required to register with the FTA for Corporate Tax with regards to that Business, in the form and manner and within the timeline prescribed by the FTA.66

The Person may deregister for Corporate Tax purposes where there is a cessation of that other Business.67

A situation could arise where a Person conducting a Business that is ancillary or incidental to its Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business has registered for Corporate Tax with the FTA because its Revenue exceeds 5% of the total Revenue of the Person and then finds that its Revenue during a subsequent Tax Period falls below the 5% threshold and so can benefit from the exemption for ancillary or incidental Business. In such a situation, the Person has not ceased its Business, so should remain registered for Corporate Tax but would file a nil Tax Return for any Tax Period in which the 5% threshold is not exceeded.






63 Article 4(1)(c) and 4(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
64 Article 56(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
65 Article 2(1)(c), 2(1)(d) and 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023.
66 Article 51(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
67 Article 52(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


6.3. Applicable Accounting Standards

The Corporate Tax Law requires an Exempt Person conducting an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business which is also conducting taxable other Business to maintain separate Financial Statements for the taxable other Business.68

For the purposes of the UAE Corporate Tax Law, a Taxable Person is required to prepare Financial Statements based on IFRS, or IFRS for SMEs where the Revenue of the Taxable Person does not exceed AED 50 million.69 Thus, such Exempt Person must, for Corporate Tax purposes, prepare Financial Statements based on IFRS/ IFRS for SMEs in respect of its taxable Business.

6.4. Preparing audited Financial Statements

A Person engaged in an Extractive Business/Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business that fulfils the conditions to be exempt from Corporate Tax, and also conducts taxable Business, will be required to prepare and maintain Financial Statements only with respect to the taxable Business.70

If the Taxable Person is a Qualifying Free Zone Person or derives Revenue exceeding AED 50 million during the relevant Tax Period, the Financial Statements are required to be audited for Corporate Tax purposes.71 To determine whether the AED 50 million threshold is met, only the Revenue of the taxable other Business should be considered.

6.5. Tax Return

Where a Person who conducts a Business that is exempt under Article 7 or Article 8 of the Corporate Tax Law also conducts taxable other Business, the Person must file a Tax Return with the FTA for its separate taxable Business in the form and manner prescribed by the FTA, within 9 months from the end of the relevant Tax Period.72









68 Articles 7(4)(a) and 8(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
69 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
70 Articles 7(4)(a) and 8(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
71 Article 54(2) of the Corporate Tax Law along with Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023.
72 Article 53(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


7. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
December 2023
* First version

	

















Qualifying Group Relief
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGQGR1

April 2024


Contents
1. Glossary	3
2. Introduction	7
2.1. Overview	7
2.2. Purpose of this guide	7
2.3. Who should read this guide?	7
2.4. How to use this guide	8
2.5. Legislative references	8
2.6. Status of this guide	9
3. Qualifying Group Relief: General aspects	10
3.1. What is a transfer?	10
3.2. Assets and liabilities eligible for Qualifying Group Relief	10
3.3. Consideration for transfer	12
4. Conditions to be a member of a Qualifying Group	13
4.1. Juridical persons condition	13
4.2. Taxable Persons condition	14
4.3. Ownership condition	16
4.3.1. What is an ownership interest?	16
4.3.2. Holder of ownership interest	18
4.3.3. Determining ownership percentage	20
4.3.4. Indirect ownership	21
4.3.5. Ownership by a common third Person in Transferor and Transferee	22
4.3.6. Aggregation of ownership by Tax Group	23
4.4. Exempt Person condition and Qualifying Free Zone Person condition	24
4.5. Financial Year condition	25
4.6. Accounting Standards condition	26
5. Consequences of election for Qualifying Group Relief 27
5.1. Transfer of assets and liabilities at net book value	27
5.2. Determining the net book value of an asset or liability	28
5.3. Adjustments to Taxable Income of the Transferee	29
5.4. Effect of several transfers on net book value	31
5.5. Exchange of assets or liabilities	34
5.6. Transfer of losses	36

5.7. Consequences of not meeting the requirements or not electing for Qualifying Group Relief	36
6. Clawback of the Qualifying Group Relief	37
6.1. Circumstances where relief is clawed back	37
6.1.1. Subsequent transfer of the asset or liability outside the Qualifying Group	37
6.1.2. Transferor or Transferee cease to be members of Qualifying Group	39
6.2. Consequences of clawback of Qualifying Group Relief	42
6.2.1. Consequences in hands of the Transferor	42
6.2.2. Consequences in hands of the Transferee	45
7. Compliance requirements	47
7.1. Election by Transferor	47
7.2. Record keeping	48
8. Interaction of Qualifying Group Relief with other parts of Corporate Tax Law	49
8.1. Business Restructuring Relief	49
8.2. Realisation basis	50
8.3. Transitional relief	51
9. Updates and Amendments	57

1. Glossary

Accounting Income: The accounting net profit or loss for the relevant Tax Period as per the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Accounting Standards: The accounting standards specified in Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.

AED: The United Arab Emirates dirham.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or activities, conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business Restructuring Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for Business restructuring transactions, available under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.

Connected Person: Any person affiliated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 36(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses.

Double Taxation Agreement: An international agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Exempt Person: A Person exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Financial Asset: Financial asset as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.


Financial Liability: Financial liability as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.

Financial Year: The Gregorian calendar year, or the twelve-month period for which the Taxable Person prepares Financial Statements.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established, or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.

IFRS for SMEs: International Financial Reporting Standard for small and medium- sized enterprises.

Immovable Property: Means any of the following:
a. Any area of land over which rights or interests or services can be created.
b. Any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed.
c. Any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.

Intangible Asset: An intangible asset as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Islamic Financial Instrument: A financial instrument which is in compliance with Sharia principles and is economically equivalent to any instrument provided for under Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023, or a combination thereof.


Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.

Membership and Partner Interests: The equity interests owned by a member or a partner in the juridical person, which entitles the member or the partner to a share of the profits, determined with reference to the member's or the partner's capital contribution, and which may be transferred to others.

Net Interest Expenditure: The Interest expenditure amount that is in excess of the Interest income amount as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Ordinary Shares: The category of capital stock or equivalent ownership interest, which gives its owner, on a share-by-share basis, equal entitlement to voting rights, profits, and liquidation proceeds.

Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.

Preferred Shares: The category of capital stock or equity interest which gives its owner priority entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds ahead of owners of Ordinary Shares.

Qualifying Free Zone Person: A Free Zone Person that meets the conditions of Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law and is subject to Corporate Tax under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Group: Two or more Taxable Persons that meet the conditions of Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Group Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for transfers within a Qualifying Group, available under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.

Redeemable Shares: The category of capital stock or equity interest, which the juridical person issuing this instrument has agreed to redeem or buy back from the


owner of this instrument at a future date or after a specific event, for a predetermined amount or with reference to a predetermined amount.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief.

State Sourced Income: Income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE as specified in Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Loss: Any negative Taxable Income as calculated under the Corporate Tax Law for a given Tax Period.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

Transferee: A Taxable Person to which one or more assets or liabilities of the Transferor is transferred under Article 26 of Corporate Tax Law.

Transferor: A Taxable Person that transfers one or more assets or liabilities to another Taxable Person under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.

Unincorporated Partnership: A relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on the Qualifying Group Relief available under Article 26 of the UAE Corporate Tax Law.

The guide provides the readers with an overview of the following in respect of Qualifying Group Relief:
* transactions covered within the scope of the relief,
* conditions to be eligible for the relief,
* consequences of electing for the relief,
* circumstances when the relief will be clawed back and consequences of clawback of the relief,
* compliance requirements, and
* interaction with other provisions of the UAE Corporate Tax Law.

This guide does not address Tax Groups, except where the Tax Group provisions interact with the provisions outlined above.

2.3. Who should read this guide?

The guide should be read by any Taxable Person intending to transfer one or more of its assets or liabilities to another Taxable Person who are both members of the same Qualifying Group.

It is intended to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.


2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Qualifying Group Relief under the Corporate Tax Law apply. The examples in the guide:
- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes, and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:

* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments, is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023 on Determination of a Non-Resident Person's Nexus in the State for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023 on the Participation Exemption for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023 on the Adjustments Under the Transitional Rules for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023 on Tax Group for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023";


* Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023 on Transfers Within a Qualifying Group for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023 on the General Rules for Determining Taxable Income for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023"; and
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 5 of 2023 on Conditions for Change in Tax Period for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023".

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the provisions of Qualifying Group Relief under the Corporate Tax Law. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. Qualifying Group Relief: General aspects

Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law allows assets or liabilities to be transferred between two Taxable Persons that are members of the same Qualifying Group without creating a gain or loss for Corporate Tax purposes ("Qualifying Group Relief"). 1 Broadly, this relief allows tax neutral restructuring of assets and liabilities where there is no change in the overall ownership of the assets or liabilities from a group perspective.

The relief is only available where both the Transferor and Transferee are members of the same Qualifying Group (see Section 4) and the Transferor has elected for the relief (see Section 7.1). The relief is also subject to conditions that ensure that any gain or loss will be subject to Corporate Tax if, within two years, the Transferee ultimately disposes of the asset or liability outside of the Qualifying Group, or the Transferor or Transferee leave the Qualifying Group (see Section 6).

3.1. What is a transfer?

Ordinarily, a transfer refers to an act by which the legal and economic ownership in an asset or liability is conveyed from one Person to another. Examples of a transfer include, but are not limited to, the following transactions:
* sale,
* exchange,
* relinquishment,
* sale-and-lease back treated as a sale under Accounting Standards,
* exercise of options to sell or acquire an asset or liability, and
* transfer under universal title.

Where assets or liabilities are transferred to a Taxable Person as a result of liquidation, dissolution or merger (that is, an entity ceasing to have legal existence),2 Qualifying Group Relief shall not apply.3

3.2. Assets and liabilities eligible for Qualifying Group Relief

Qualifying Group Relief applies only to the transfer of assets or liabilities held on capital account and recorded on the balance sheet of the Transferor.4 The transfer of assets or liabilities which are not held on capital account (for example, inventory transferred

1 Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
2 Article 12(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
3 Article 12(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
4 Article 3(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.


as part of regular Business operations) is not within the scope of Qualifying Group Relief and hence, cannot benefit from the no gain or loss tax treatment. The general Corporate Tax rules, including the requirement to apply the arm's length standard on transfers between Related Parties, 5 apply in respect of the transfer of assets or liabilities between members of the Qualifying Group where they are not held on capital account on the balance sheet of the Transferor, or where the assets or liabilities transferred are held on capital account but the Transferor has not made an election for Qualifying Group Relief.

Assets and liabilities held on capital account should be interpreted in line with Article 20(4) of the Corporate Tax Law,6 which provides the following:
* "Assets held on capital account" refers to assets that the Person does not trade, assets that are eligible for depreciation, or assets treated under the applicable Accounting Standards as property, plant and equipment, investment property, Intangible Assets, or other non-current assets.7
* "Liabilities held on capital account" refers to liabilities, the incurring of which does not give rise to deductible expenditure under Articles 28 to 32 of the Corporate Tax Law, or liabilities treated under the applicable Accounting Standards as non- current liabilities.8

Whether an asset or liability is held on capital account depends on the facts and circumstances of each case. As the asset or liability is recognised in the Financial Statements of the Transferor, a key indicator will be whether it is treated as a long- term asset or liability under the applicable Accounting Standards.

An asset (tangible or intangible) held on capital account is generally understood as a long-term asset held for future economic benefit. Thus, the Transferor's intention and purpose of holding the asset is relevant when determining if the asset is capital in nature. For example, assets such as machinery, equipment, real estate or similar assets are usually considered to be held as long-term assets on capital account, provided that such assets are not held as inventory for purposes of the particular Business of the Transferor. A transfer of assets or liabilities which are not recognised in the Financial Statements of the Transferor (for example, a self-generated intellectual property, such as goodwill, brand or customer lists) would not fall within the scope of Qualifying Group Relief. However, whilst out of scope of Qualifying Group Relief, such assets and liabilities may, where the relevant conditions are met, benefit from Business Restructuring Relief under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.9 This is since



5 Article 34(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
6 Article 3(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
7 Article 20(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
8 Article 20(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


these assets may be inseparable from the Business as a whole, and so a transfer of the Business may include a transfer of such assets.

A liability held on capital account may generally be understood as a liability intended to be held as a long-term liability. If a liability does not qualify as a current liability in the Financial Statements prepared by the Transferor under the applicable Accounting Standards, this is an indication of the Transferor's intention. But if a liability has been held as a long-term liability on capital account, but at the time of the transfer has become a current liability (for example due to the end of a fixed-term liability falling within one year of the balance sheet date), it will generally be considered as not being held on capital account.

3.3. Consideration for transfer

Qualifying Group Relief does not require any consideration to be paid. Where it is paid, it does not need to be in a specific form. Accordingly, no gain or loss treatment under Qualifying Group Relief can be available if the value of the consideration differs from the net book value or the Market Value or is paid by a Person other than the Transferee. Further, the consideration can be in cash or in kind.

Where the Transferee pays consideration in kind in the form of another asset or liability held on capital account, this constitutes an exchange transaction. An exchange of assets or liabilities between two members of the same Qualifying Group shall be treated as two separate transfers for the purposes of Qualifying Group Relief.10 Since the relief applies on an asset-by-asset basis, in an exchange transaction, both transfers shall be tested separately to assess whether Qualifying Group Relief is available. Whether a clawback is triggered under Article 26(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law on one of the transfers in an exchange, shall also be tested on each transfer separately. Therefore, it is possible that a clawback applies on one of the transfers in an exchange of assets and liabilities, but not on the other transfer. See Section 05.5 for a detailed discussion on exchange transactions.















10 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.


4. Conditions to be a member of a Qualifying Group

The Transferor and Transferee shall be treated as members of the same Qualifying Group where all of the following conditions are met:
* the Transferor and Transferee are juridical persons (the "juridical persons condition"),11
* the Transferor and Transferee are Taxable Persons (the "Taxable Persons condition"),12
* either Transferor or Transferee has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% in the other Person, or a third Person has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% in both the Transferor and the Transferee (the "ownership condition"),13
* neither the Transferor nor the Transferee are an Exempt Person (the "Exempt Person condition"),14
* neither the Transferor nor the Transferee are a Qualifying Free Zone Person (the "Qualifying Free Zone Person condition"),15
* the Transferor and the Transferee must have Financial Years ending on the same date (the "Financial Year condition"), and
* the Transferor and the Transferee must prepare their Financial Statements using the same Accounting Standards (the "Accounting Standards condition").16

Where the Transferor and Transferee elect to apply the Qualifying Group Relief, they must remain members of the same Qualifying Group for a period of two years from the date of the transfer in order to avoid a clawback of the relief as discussed in Section 6 below. Thus, each of the above conditions must be met throughout the relevant two- year period.

4.1. Juridical persons condition

Only a juridical person can be a member of a Qualifying Group.17 A juridical person has a separate legal personality from its founders, owners and directors. Examples of juridical persons include companies (such as private or public joint stock companies or limited liability companies) and incorporated partnerships.




11 Article 26(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 12 Article 26(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 13 Article 26(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 14 Article 26(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 15 Article 26(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
16 Article 26(2)(e) and (f) of the Corporate Tax Law.
17 Article 26(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Natural persons carrying on Business as a sole establishment are not juridical persons and, therefore, cannot form or be in a Qualifying Group. Thus, a natural person cannot be a Transferor or Transferee for the purposes of Qualifying Group Relief.

Unincorporated Partnerships are a contractual relationship between two or more persons that do not have distinct legal personality separate from their partners/members. Given that Unincorporated Partnerships are not juridical persons in their own right, they cannot be part of a Qualifying Group. This applies even if an Unincorporated Partnership is treated as a Taxable Person after an application by its partners is approved by the FTA under Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law, as this does not change the legal form of an Unincorporated Partnership.

A juridical person, who is a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership, can be a member of a Qualifying Group with other juridical persons (including juridical persons held by the Unincorporated Partnership). Accordingly, while an Unincorporated Partnership cannot be a Transferor or Transferee for the purposes of Qualifying Group Relief, the relief may be available to a juridical person who is a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership or to a juridical person who is held by an Unincorporated Partnership.

4.2. Taxable Persons condition

A juridical person can only be a member of a Qualifying Group if it is a Taxable Person that is:18
* a Resident Person, or
* a Non-Resident Person that has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

Under the Corporate Tax Law, a juridical person is a Resident Person where:
* It is incorporated or otherwise established or recognised under the applicable legislation of the UAE;19 or
* It is incorporated or otherwise established or recognised under the applicable legislation of a foreign jurisdiction but is effectively managed and controlled in the UAE.20

Where the Transferor or Transferee is a Resident Person under the UAE Corporate Tax Law, they can be a member of a Qualifying Group.




18 Article 26(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 19 Article 11(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 20 Article 11(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Further, a Non-Resident Person with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE can also be a member of a Qualifying Group.21 Therefore, if a Non-Resident Person with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE transfers or is transferred assets or liabilities attributable to its Permanent Establishment to or from another Taxable Person within its Qualifying Group, this transfer could benefit from Qualifying Group Relief if the relevant conditions are met. This can also apply if assets or liabilities are transferred from one Permanent Establishment in the UAE to another Permanent Establishment in the UAE. In addition, Qualifying Group Relief can also apply if a Person becomes a Taxable Person for the first time as a result of the transfer, because the assets or liabilities transferred result in a Permanent Establishment in the UAE for the Transferee.

However, Qualifying Group Relief is not available for transfers between a Permanent Establishment in the UAE and its head office outside the UAE. Similarly, Qualifying Group Relief is not available if a Non-Resident Person transfers or is transferred assets or liabilities and these assets or liabilities are not attributable to a Permanent Establishment in the UAE. The assets attributable to the Permanent Establishment are those from which it derives profits, being those which the Permanent Establishment has economic ownership of, as determined by the use of the assets (including both tangible and intangible assets).


21 Article 26(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.




A Non-Resident Person which derives State Sourced Income or has a nexus in the UAE is also a Taxable Person under the Corporate Tax Law.22 However, such a Non- Resident Person cannot be a member of a Qualifying Group.

4.3. Ownership condition

The Transferor and Transferee shall be treated as members of the same Qualifying Group if:23
* the Transferor holds a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% in the Transferee, or
* the Transferee holds a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% in the Transferor, or
* a third Person holds a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% in the Transferor as well as the Transferee.

4.3.1. What is an ownership interest?

The term "ownership interest" should be applied consistently with how it is applied in other parts of the Corporate Tax Law.24 Any other guidance relating to this term when used in other parts of the Corporate Tax Law should similarly apply in the context of Qualifying Group Relief under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law.

An ownership interest can be understood as any equity or similar interest (for example, a partnership interest) that carries rights to the profits and liquidation proceeds of the Taxable Person (that is Transferor or Transferee or both where the ownership interest is held by a third Person).

A holding can qualify as an ownership interest for the purposes of Qualifying Group Relief only if it is treated as an equity interest under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person holding the ownership interest.25 This ensures that the mere


22 Article 11(4)(b) and (c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
23 Article 26(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
24 Articles 23, 26, 27, 31, 35, 36, 38, 39 and 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.
25 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.


legal ownership of shares or other ownership interests is not sufficient, in case the Accounting Standards do not treat the ownership interest as an equity interest.26

Two Taxable Persons can also be in a Qualifying Group if a third Person holds an ownership interest of at least 75% in both the Transferor and Transferee. If that third Person is not a Taxable Person, the ownership interest should also be treated as an equity interest under the accounting standards applied by that Person. If that Person does not apply an accounting standard (for example because they are a natural person), the condition of common ownership can be met if the ownership interest held by such third Person would have been treated as an equity interest if such Person had applied Accounting Standards acceptable in the UAE.

An ownership interest can include, but is not limited to, holdings in any one or a combination of the following instruments:27

Type of instrument
Description


Ordinary Shares
Category of capital stock or equivalent ownership interest, which gives its owner, on a share-by-share basis, equal entitlement to voting rights, profits, and liquidation proceeds.


Preferred Shares
Category of capital stock or equity interest which gives its owner priority entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds ahead of owners of Ordinary Shares.



Redeemable Shares
Category of capital stock or equity interest which the juridical person issuing this instrument has agreed to redeem or buy back from the owner of this instrument at a future date or after a specific event, for a predetermined amount or with reference to a predetermined amount.


Membership	and	Partner Interests
Equity interests owned by a member or a partner in the juridical person, which entitles the member or the partner to a share of the profits, determined with reference to the member's or the partner's capital contribution, and which may be transferred to others.




26 Article 26(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
27 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.


Type of instrument
Description
Islamic Financial Instrument or a combination of arrangements that form part of the same Islamic Financial Instrument


A financial instrument which is compliant with Sharia principles.

The above list of ownership instruments is illustrative. Other types of instruments which grant rights to the profits and liquidation proceeds of the Taxable Person (that is Transferor or Transferee or both where the ownership interest is held by a third Person) and are classified as an equity interest under the applicable Accounting Standards (or the accounting standards used by a third Person that is not a Taxable Person), may also qualify as ownership interests. For example, the definition of Ordinary Shares refers to capital stock which gives its owner equal entitlement to voting rights, profits, and liquidation proceeds. However, shares that do not carry voting rights but have rights to profits and liquidation proceeds can also qualify as an ownership interest, if classified as equity interests under the applicable Accounting Standards (or the accounting standards used by a third Person that is not a Taxable Person).

Ordinarily debt instruments do not qualify as an ownership interest. However, a debt instrument (including one convertible into equity) would be treated as an ownership interest if it is classified as an equity interest under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person holding the ownership interest (or the accounting standards used by a third Person that is not a Taxable Person).

4.3.2. Holder of ownership interest

For the purposes of Qualifying Group Relief, a Taxable Person shall be treated as holding an ownership interest where the following two conditions are met:28
* the ownership interest is controlled by that Taxable Person under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, and
* that Taxable Person has the right to the economic benefits produced by the ownership interest under the Accounting Standards as applied by the Taxable Person.

With respect to the first condition relating to control, the meaning of "control" is to be determined in accordance with the applicable Accounting Standard. On the basis of Accounting Standards, a Taxable Person shall be considered to be controlling the


28 Article 2(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.


ownership interest of a judicial person (i.e. the investee) if and only if, it has all of the following:
* power over the investee,
* exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and
* the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor's returns.

With respect to the second condition relating to the right to economic benefits, the Taxable Person holding the ownership interests in another juridical person must be the economic owner of 75% or more of the ownership interests.29 A Taxable Person is the economic owner of an ownership interest when they have (or are entitled to) at least 75% of the benefits and burdens of ownership, including rights to profits, liquidation proceeds, or voting in respect of the ownership interests held, and they have not renounced or transferred such rights under another arrangement. Accordingly, if a Taxable Person holds the ownership interest in the capacity of an agent, nominee, fiduciary or administrator, so that they are simply a conduit for another Person who in fact is entitled to the benefits and burdens of ownership, the former is not the economic owner of the ownership interest.

The Transferor and Transferee can also be members of the same Qualifying Group if a third Person (i.e. a common shareholder) holds an ownership interest of at least 75% in both of them.30 The common shareholder does not need to be a Taxable Person (see Section 4.3.5). Where the common shareholder is not a Taxable Person, it will still be required to have control and economic right over the ownership interests.






29 Article 26(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
30 Article 26(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


4.3.3. Determining ownership percentage
The percentage of ownership must be calculated as: Percentage of ownership (PO) = X *100, where:
Y

X = Paid-up capital of ownership interests held by or the equity interest contributions made by the Transferor or Transferee or a third Person, as applicable (depending on which entity is holding shares in the Taxable Person for the purposes of assessing the conditions of a Qualifying Group). Different types of ownership interests held in the same Taxable Person can be aggregated for the purposes of determining the percentage of ownership.

Y = Total paid-up capital of the Taxable Person or the total equity interest contributions made to the Taxable Person, as applicable.31 The Taxable Person here can be the Transferor or Transferee depending on which entity's shares are being held.32

Ownership interests may carry rights to profits and liquidation proceeds in different percentages. For example, an ownership interest may carry a right to 80% of the profits of an entity but only 10% of the liquidation proceeds. Such differential rights in ownership interests do not impact the ownership condition since the percentage of ownership interest held is determined with reference to the paid-up capital of the Transferor and/or the Transferee, provided that an ownership interest as described in
4.3.1 above, is held, i.e. provided that the ownership interest qualifies as an equity interest under applicable Accounting Standards.33


31 Article 2(5) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
32 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
33 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.




4.3.4. Indirect ownership

The ownership condition is met even if the 75% of the ownership interest is held indirectly. Thus, the ownership condition is met even if:34
* the Transferor indirectly holds at least 75% of ownership interests in the Transferee or
* the Transferee indirectly holds at least 75% of ownership interests in the Transferor, or
* a third Person indirectly holds at least 75% of ownership interests in the Transferor as well as the Transferee.

Where the ownership interest in the Transferor or Transferee is held indirectly through a non-wholly owned intermediary, the holding in the Transferor or Transferee should be counted proportionately i.e. in proportion to the holding in the intermediate non- wholly owned intermediary.







Where the ownership interest is held indirectly through one or more intermediaries, it is not necessary that the intermediary is also a member of the Qualifying Group. For example, if the Transferor indirectly holds 75% ownership interest in the Transferee through an Exempt Person or a Qualifying Free Zone Person, the ownership condition for Qualifying Group Relief is still satisfied.


4.3.5. Ownership by a common third Person in Transferor and Transferee

The ownership condition is met where a third Person (i.e. a common shareholder) holds a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% in the Transferor as well as the Transferee.35 The term "third Person" means that the common shareholder is not required to be a Taxable Person. In other words, where a Person is not a Taxable Person (for example, a natural person or a foreign company that is not a Taxable Person under Article 11 of the Corporate Tax Law) and holds a direct or indirect


ownership interest of at least 75% in the Transferor and the Transferee, the Transferor and Transferee are members of a Qualifying Group. Because the third Person is not a Taxable Person, it is not itself a member of a Qualifying Group.

If a common shareholder has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, it would be a Taxable Person (as a Non-Resident Person) and it would be a member of the Qualifying Group and transfers to or from that Permanent Establishment could be eligible for Qualifying Group Relief.36 However, where the common shareholder does not have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, but is a Taxable Person (as a Non- Resident Person) as a result of earning State Sourced Income or a nexus in the UAE as specified in Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023, 37 it cannot be a member of a Qualifying Group even though it is a Taxable Person under the Corporate Tax Law.38


4.3.6. Aggregation of ownership by Tax Group

For the ownership condition, the direct and indirect ownership interests held by members of the same Tax Group shall be determined by aggregating the ownership interests of the Parent Company and each Subsidiary that is a member of the Tax Group.39







36 Article 26(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
37 Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
38 Article 26(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
39 Article 9 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.




4.4. Exempt Person condition and Qualifying Free Zone Person condition

Qualifying Group Relief is intended to be applicable to Taxable Persons which are subject to Corporate Tax in a similar manner. In line with this principle, an Exempt Person according to Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law or a Qualifying Free Zone

40 Article 9 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


Person according to Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law cannot be a member of a Qualifying Group.41

By contrast, a Taxable Person that is a Free Zone Person but not a Qualifying Free Zone Person can be a member of a Qualifying Group. In other words, the mere fact that a Taxable Person is incorporated or established in a Free Zone does not prevent it from being a member in a Qualifying Group.

Where a member of a Qualifying Group becomes an Exempt Person or a Qualifying Free Zone Person in a subsequent Tax Period, that Person will cease to be a member of the Qualifying Group from the date on which the condition is no longer met. If a Taxable Person becomes an Exempt Person or Qualifying Free Zone Person retroactively from the start of a Tax Period, they would cease to be a member of the Qualifying Group as of the start of that Tax Period.

Where a Resident Person elects for Small Business Relief, it is not entitled to apply the provisions of Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law.42

4.5. Financial Year condition

A Qualifying Group requires the Financial Year of all members to end on the same date.43 Consequently, all members of the Qualifying Group should have a Tax Period that ends on the same date.

Under the Corporate Tax Law, the Financial Year is defined as either the Gregorian calendar year (beginning on 1 January and ending on 31 December) or a 12-month period for which Financial Statements are prepared.44

If a Taxable Person meets all the conditions to be a member of a Qualifying Group except for the Financial Year condition, that Person may choose to change its Financial Year to align the end date of its Financial Year with other members of the Qualifying Group by making an application to the FTA, subject to the following conditions:45
* the Taxable Person has not yet filed the Tax Return for the Tax Period it is applying to change,46


41 Article 26(2)(c) and (d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
42 Article 21(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 43 Article 26(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 44 Article 57(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
45 Article 58 of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 2(1)(b) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023.
46 Article 2(2) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023.


* the Tax Period is not extended to last more than 18 months or not reduced to last less than 6 months,47
* where the Taxable Person filed an application to shorten a Tax Period, the application is not in respect of a prior or current Tax Period,48
* the application is made before the lapse of 6 months from the end of the original Tax Period.49

Further, the Financial Year condition requires that the Financial Year of all members of the Qualifying Group must end on the same date.50 This does not necessarily require all members of a Qualifying Group to have the same Financial Year or Tax Period. For example, if a Taxable Person has a longer or shorter Financial Year as compared to other members of the Qualifying Group, the Financial Year condition is met so long as the longer or shorter Financial Year ends on the same date as other members.

4.6. Accounting Standards condition

All members of a Qualifying Group must prepare their Financial Statements using the same Accounting Standards.51 For the purposes of the UAE Corporate Tax Law, a Taxable Person is required to prepare Financial Statements based on IFRS.52 Where the Revenue of the Taxable Person does not exceed AED 50 million, they may choose to apply IFRS for SMEs instead.53 The condition would not be met if one Taxable Person uses IFRS and another Taxable Person uses IFRS for SMEs.

It is possible that a Taxable Person meets all the conditions to be a member of a Qualifying Group except the Accounting Standards condition because it prepares its Financial Statements under IFRS for SMEs whereas other members apply (full) IFRS. In such a case, the Taxable Person may choose to prepare its Financial Statements under (full) IFRS to align with other members of the Qualifying Group. This does not require any application to be made to the FTA.

Further, the Accounting Standards condition is not a requirement to follow the same accounting policies in the standalone Financial Statements. Thus, even if all members of the Qualifying Group use the same Accounting Standards, each member may follow different accounting policies, if those policies are permitted under the relevant Accounting Standards.

47 Article 2(3) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023.
48 Article 2(5) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023.
49 Article 2(4) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023. 50 Article 26(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 51 Article 26(2)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law.
52 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.


5. Consequences of election for Qualifying Group Relief

5.1. Transfer of assets and liabilities at net book value

Where an asset or liability is transferred on a no gain or loss basis under Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, the asset or liability will be treated as transferred at its net book value at the date when the transfer transaction takes place.54 Accordingly, at the level of the Transferor, there would be no taxable gain or loss on transfer of the asset or liability.

Example 8: Transfer at net book value

Company C and Company D are both manufacturing Businesses wholly owned by Company X. Company C and Company D are incorporated and resident in the UAE and meet all other conditions to be considered as members of a Qualifying Group. They have not elected to form a Tax Group under Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Company C transfers machinery to Company D to allow Company D to fulfil customer orders. Company C did not request payment and Company D did not pay for the machinery. At the time of the transfer, the net book value of the machinery was AED 800,000 and its Market Value was AED 1,200,000. Company D uses the fair value method of accounting and as a result, recognised the asset at a net book value of AED 1,200,000 for accounting purposes.

For Corporate Tax purposes, the machinery can be treated as having been transferred at the asset's net book value, AED 800,000. This means that when calculating their Taxable Income, Company C will be treated as having received AED 800,000 and Company D will be treated as having paid AED 800,000 for the machinery. As a result, no gain or loss will arise for Company C for Corporate Tax purposes and, thus, any loss arising in the accounts of Company C for accounting purposes must be disregarded in the determination of Company C's Taxable Income.

Company C position
Amounts in AED
Amount deemed to have been received for Corporate
Tax purposes
800,000
Less: Net book value of the machine
(800,000)
Gain/loss arising for Corporate Tax purposes on the
transfer of the machine
0


5.2. Determining the net book value of an asset or liability

The net book value of an asset or liability is generally the cost of the asset or liability after deducting any accumulated depreciation and amortisation and any other value adjustments that have been processed in the Financial Statements.

Thus, if the Financial Statements of the Transferor recognise depreciation or amortisation up to the date of a transfer which occurred during a Tax Period, the depreciation or amortisation will reduce the net book value of the assets and liabilities transferred by the Transferor. As a result, the depreciation and amortisation can reduce the Taxable Income of the Transferor for the period up to the transfer of the asset or liability, even if the transfer itself does not trigger a gain or loss.


Where an asset or liability is transferred on a no gain or loss basis under Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, the Transferor shall treat the consideration received as being equal to the net book value.55 To the extent consideration paid differs from the net book value of the asset or liability, the difference is ignored for the calculation of both the Transferor's and Transferee's Taxable Income.







55 Article 26(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.3. Adjustments to Taxable Income of the Transferee

In cases other than realisation, the Transferee shall adjust its Taxable Income to exclude depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of the transferred assets and liabilities to the extent that it relates to the gain or loss that arose to the Transferor and was not recognised for Corporate Tax purposes as a result of the no gain or loss treatment being applied.56

Upon realisation of the assets and liabilities, the Transferee will need to include any amount that has not been recognised for Corporate Tax purposes under application of Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. This will not apply to an amount that arose prior to the most recent acquisition where Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law did not apply. 57 For these purposes, realisation includes the sale, disposal, transfer, settlement and complete worthlessness of any asset and the settlement, assignment, transfer and forgiveness of any liability, but does not include the no gain or loss transfers under Articles 26 or 27 of the Corporate Tax Law.58

Example 10: Adjustments to the Taxable Income of the Transferee

Company A and Company B are members of a Qualifying Group and follow the Gregorian calendar year as their Tax Period. Company A owns a building with a net book value of AED 10 million. On 31 December 2024, Company A transfers the building to Company B at Market Value of AED 12 million. However, for Corporate Tax purposes, Company A has made an election to apply the Qualifying Group Relief. Accordingly, Company A is treated as transferring the building at AED 10 million for Corporate Tax purposes and so will not include the gain of AED 2 million (i.e. 12 million - 10 million) in its Taxable Income for the Tax Period ending 31 December 2024.

In the Financial Statements of Company B, the asset is recorded as follows:
Tax Period
Opening net book value (in AED)
Depreciation (using straight line method over 10 years, in AED)
Closing net book value	(after depreciation, in
AED)
2025
12 million
1.2 million
10.8 million
2026
10.8 million
1.2 million
9.6 million
2027
9.6 million
1.2 million
8.4 million



56 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
57 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
58 Article 9(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


Since the transfer is on a no gain or loss basis for Corporate Tax purposes, Company B is deemed to acquire the asset at its net book value. Accordingly, Company B must exclude any depreciation on the asset to the extent it relates to the gain that arose to Company A but was not taxed due to the application of Qualifying Group Relief.59

Thus, for Corporate Tax purposes, the tax treatment of depreciation recorded in the Financial Statements of Company B shall be as follows:
Tax Period
Depreciation	as per	Financial
Statements
Depreciation	not deductible for Corporate
Tax purposes
Depreciation	allowed for	Corporate	Tax
purposes
2025
1.2 million
1.2 million
NIL
2026
1.2 million
0.8 million
0.4 million
2027
1.2 million
NIL
1.2 million

Assuming that in the 2027 Tax Period, Company B sells the building to a third party (not a member of the Qualifying Group). For the purposes of calculating its Taxable Income, Company B will include for its 2027 Tax Period, the gain of AED 2 million that arose to Company A on the transfer to Company B that has not been recognised previously for Corporate Tax purposes. During its 2027 Tax period, it will also be entitled to a deduction for the depreciation adjustments of AED 1.2 million previously made in the Tax Period ending 31 December 2025 and AED 0.8 million made in the Tax Period ending 31 December 2026.60

In case there have been several transfers on a no gain or loss basis, all the gains and losses in relation to those transfers would need to be included upon realisation, unless these amounts had already been adjusted or included in the Taxable Income as a result of a clawback.61 In addition, if depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of the transferred assets and liabilities was previously excluded from the Taxable Income of the Transferee, such depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value is included in the Taxable Income upon realisation (as illustrated in Section 5.4).62

If a clawback under Article 26(4) of the Corporate Tax Law is triggered in relation to a no gain or loss transfer, this is treated as a realisation of the asset or liability and the resulting gain or loss should be included in the Taxable Income of the Transferor of the transaction for which the clawback was triggered in the Tax Period when the event


59 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
60 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
61 Article 26(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
62 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


or circumstance giving rise to the clawback occurs.63 See Section 6 for consequences on clawback of Qualifying Group Relief.

5.4. Effect of several transfers on net book value

If there has been a previous transfer on a no gain or loss basis under Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, it is possible that a disposal will trigger a gain or loss that was previously not taken into account. In such cases, the income on disposal should be adjusted for that amount.64

















Date of transfer
Transferor
Transferee
Net book value on date of transfer (after
depreciation)
Market Value on date of transfer
1 January 2025
Company A
Company B
AED 10
million
AED 12
million
1 January 2026
Company B
Company C
AED 10.8
million (AED 12 million -
AED 1.2
million)
AED 14
million
1 January 2029
Company C
Third party
AED 9.8
million (AED 14 million -
AED 4.2
million)
AED 16
million



63 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
64 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


Company A and Company B have elected to apply the no gain or loss treatment in respect of transfers made by them (i.e. as Transferors) within a Qualifying Group. In their Financial Statements, Company B and Company C each depreciate the asset over 10 years on a straight-line basis, starting from the date each of the entities acquired the asset.

Tax
Period
Impact in hands of Transferor
Impact in hands of
Transferee


2025
Company A will be considered to have transferred the asset at net book value meaning that the gain of AED 2 million will not be included in Taxable Income of
Company A.65
Company B will exclude the AED 1.2 million of depreciation, as it relates to the AED 2 million gain that was not taken into account
on the transfer.66






2026
Company A will not include the gain of AED 2 million that was not previously taken into account, because the subsequent transfer within the Qualifying Group is not treated as a realisation.67

The net book value of the asset at that date (1 January 2026) is AED
10.8 million, meaning AED 3.2 million of gain will not be taken into account either by Company B upon
the transfer to Company C.

Company C will exclude AED
1.4 million of depreciation, as it relates to the AED 4 million gain (AED 0.8 million of remaining gain in relation to the transfer in 2025 and AED
3.2 million of gain in relation to the transfer in 2026) that was not taken into account on the transfers. 68


2027
N/A
Company C will exclude AED
1.4 million of depreciation, as it relates to the AED 2.6 million of remaining gain that was not taken into account
on the transfers. 69

2028
N/A
Company C will exclude AED
1.2 million of depreciation, as it relates to the AED 1.2


65 Article 26(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
66 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
67 Articles 4(2) and 9(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
68 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
69 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.




million of remaining gain that
was not taken into account on the transfers.70

The transfer of the asset outside the Qualifying Group on 1 January 2029 does not trigger a clawback on the no gain or loss transfers as this is not within two years of either of the Qualifying Group transfers.71
Third party will recognise the asset at Market Value as on the date of transfer (which is AED 16 million).

However, this is a realisation event, meaning that any gain or loss not previously taken into account is included in Company C's Taxable Income for 2029.72 The amount to be included in Taxable Income upon transfer shall be calculated as
follows:


2029

Description
Amount
in AED




A. Disposal proceeds relating to
asset
16 million




B. Net book value of asset (in Financial
Statements)
9.8
million




C. Accounting Income on transfer
of asset (A - B)
6.2
million




D. Gain not previously taken into account73 [AED 2 million for the transfer on 1 January 2025 and
AED 3.2 million for
5.2
million



70 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
71 Article 26(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
72 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
73 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.




the transfer on 1





January 2026]





E. Depreciation
(5.2




deduction74 (AED
million)




1.2 million for





Company B in 2025





and AED 4 million





for Company C in





2026, 2027 and





2028)





F. Included in
6.2




Taxable Income of
million




Company C upon





transfer (C + D + E)




5.5. Exchange of assets or liabilities

In case the consideration paid by the Transferee for the transfer of an asset or liability within a Qualifying Group is in the form of another asset or liability held on capital account, the transaction would be treated as two separate transfer transactions for the purposes of Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law, and thus the Qualifying Group Relief would apply separately to each transfer, provided the relevant conditions are met.75 In such a case, the no gain or loss transfer would apply to both transfers if at least one of the Taxable Persons involved in the transfer transaction has elected for the application of the relief.76

In other words, in the case of an exchange of assets or liabilities between a Taxable Person who has elected to apply Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law and another Taxable Person who has not, the no gain or loss treatment would apply to both transfers, if the relevant conditions are met.

However, if an asset or liability held on capital account is transferred in exchange for an asset or liability which is not held on capital account, the no gain or loss treatment shall only be available to the transfer of the capital asset or liability if the Transferor of the asset or liability held on capital account has elected to apply Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law and the no gain or loss treatment will not apply to the asset which is not held on capital account .



74 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
75 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
76 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.


In case of an exchange of assets or liabilities to which Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law applies, a difference between the net book value of such assets or liabilities is ignored when calculating Taxable Income.

Example 12: Exchange of assets

Company C and Company D are members of a Qualifying Group. Company C transfers an item of equipment (held on capital account) to Company D in June 2024. In exchange, Company D transfers a patent for a manufacturing process (held on capital account), pays an amount in cash and records the balance as an amount payable to Company C (thus a receivable from Company C's perspective). In December 2025, Company D sells the equipment to Company E who is not a member of the Qualifying Group. Only Company D has elected for Qualifying Group Relief.

Several assets are transferred between Company C and Company D, as follows:
* The transfer of equipment, being an asset held on capital account, from Company C to Company D is treated at no gain or loss under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law, as Company D has elected for Qualifying Group Relief. However, as the asset is sold or subsequently transferred outside the Qualifying Group within 2 years from the date of transfer, the Qualifying Group Relief will be clawed back under Article 26(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
* The cash payment from Company D to Company C is not the transfer of an asset held on capital account and so is outside the scope of Qualifying Group Relief.
* The amount booked as a group receivable is not a transfer, as it creates a new asset as a result of the transfer. Therefore, like the cash payment, it will be outside the scope of Qualifying Group Relief.
* The transfer of the patent from Company D to Company C is the transfer of an asset held on capital account, and is treated as a no gain or loss transfer under Qualifying Group Relief. The clawback of Qualifying Group Relief on the subsequent transfer of the equipment does not impact the relief claimed on the transfer of the patent.

As the consideration paid by Company D consisted partially of an asset held on capital account, the transaction is treated as an exchange of assets within scope of Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023. As Company D has elected to apply Qualifying Group Relief, the no gain or loss treatment should be available on the transfer of assets held on capital account. In this case, this applies to the transfer of the equipment and the patent, provided the other conditions are met.77


77 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.




5.6. Transfer of losses

Qualifying Group Relief does not permit Tax Losses to be transferred to the Transferee. In relation to the transfer of Tax Losses, the provisions of Article 38 of the Corporate Tax Law would apply.

5.7. Consequences of not meeting the requirements or not electing for Qualifying Group Relief

Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law does not apply to all transfers of assets or liabilities between two Taxable Persons. If the conditions for a no gain or loss transfer are not met or if the Transferor has not elected for application of Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law, the transaction would be outside of the scope of Qualifying Group Relief. If such a transfer is between Related Parties, which will typically be the case where a Qualifying Group could be formed, the transfer is a transaction that should meet the arm's length standard.78 This means the gain or loss resulting from the transfer should be determined based on the Market Value of the asset or liability being transferred.

If a transfer of assets or liabilities is not between Related Parties, the gain or loss on such a transfer should be determined based on the standalone Financial Statements prepared by the Taxable Persons in accordance with the applicable Accounting Standards.79

















78 Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.
79 Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.


6. Clawback of the Qualifying Group Relief

Qualifying Group Relief does not apply where, within two years from the date of transfer, any of the following occurs:
* there is a subsequent transfer of the asset or liability outside of the Qualifying Group, 80 or
* the Transferor or Transferee cease to be members of the same Qualifying Group.81

Where any of the above circumstances occur, any gain or loss on transfer of an asset or liability not previously taken into account shall be taken into account for the purposes of calculating the Taxable Income of the Transferor and included in the Tax Return of the Transferor (or the Transferee, where the Transferor has ceased to be a Taxable Person)82 for the Tax Period in which the above circumstances occur.83

These circumstances are discussed in more detail in Section 6.1. The consequences of the clawback are discussed in detail in Section 6.2.

6.1. Circumstances where relief is clawed back

6.1.1. Subsequent transfer of the asset or liability outside the Qualifying Group

For the purposes of considering whether there has been a transfer outside of the Qualifying Group, the relevant Qualifying Group is the one in respect of which the Transferor and the Transferee are both members. The determination of whether the subsequent transfer is within the same Qualifying Group, must be considered at the time of the subsequent transfer.

The Qualifying Group Relief will be clawed back if, within two years of the transfer, there is a subsequent transfer of the asset or liability outside of the Qualifying Group.84 The reason for subsequent transfer outside of the Qualifying Group is not relevant. For example, the clawback can be triggered even if the Transferee ceases to exist upon liquidation or on merger and the relevant asset or liability is transferred outside of the Qualifying Group as a distribution of liquidation proceeds or as consideration for a merger transaction.



80 Article 26(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
81 Article 26(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
82 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
83 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
84 Article 26(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


The clawback is not triggered if the subsequent transfer of the asset or liability is within the Qualifying Group. The reference to "the Qualifying Group" is to the Qualifying Group to which both the original Transferor and original Transferee belong. In other words, the condition under Article 26(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law will not be met if the original Transferor, original Transferee and the new Transferee are all members of the same Qualifying Group at the time of the second transfer (or any subsequent transfer).

The clawback is not triggered if the new Transferee was not a member of this Qualifying Group at the time of original transfer provided it is a member of the Qualifying Group when the asset or liability is transferred to it.





6.1.2. Transferor or Transferee cease to be members of Qualifying Group

The Qualifying Group Relief is clawed back if, within two years of the transfer, the Transferor or Transferee cease to be members of the same Qualifying Group.85

Some examples where the Transferor and Transferee cease to be members of a Qualifying Group are:
* a change in the ownership of the Transferor or Transferee which results in failure of the ownership condition discussed in Section 4.3.
* the transferor or Transferee cease to be a Taxable Person, for example:
- the Transferor or Transferee was a Non-Resident Person having a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, but the Permanent Establishment ceases to exist,
- the Transferor or Transferee was a Resident Person but then ceases to be a Taxable Person (for instance, if a company incorporated outside the UAE stops being controlled and managed in the UAE without having a Permanent Establishment in the UAE), or
- the Transferor or the Transferee ceases to exist.
* the Transferor or Transferee becomes an Exempt Person in a subsequent Tax Period or becomes a Qualifying Free Zone Person for a Tax Period and does not elect out of the Free Zone regime under Article 19 of the Corporate Tax Law.
* the Transferor or Transferee changes their Financial Year such that the end date no longer aligns with the other member(s) of the Qualifying Group.

















85 Article 26(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 14: Trigger of clawback where a Tax Group ceases to exist

Company A holds 95% of the shares of Company B. Company A and Company B are members of a Tax Group under Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law (as distinct from a Qualifying Group under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law). Company B holds 75% of the shares of Company C. Company A transfers an asset to Company C. Company A, Company B and Company C are incorporated and resident in the UAE.

Company A indirectly holds 71.25% of the shares in Company C (i.e. 95% of 75%). Hence, on a standalone basis, Company A and Company C are not members of a Qualifying Group.

However, because Company A and Company B are members of a Tax Group, the ownership condition under Article 26(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law is determined on an aggregate basis for the Tax Group.86 On an aggregate basis, Company C and the Tax Group formed by Company A and Company B are members of the same Qualifying Group. Hence, the transfer of the asset by Company A to Company C is covered by Qualifying Group Relief.

However, if the Tax Group between Company A and Company B ceases to exist within 2 years from the date of transfer, the no gain or loss tax treatment will be clawed back under Article 26(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law because of the Transferor and Transferee ceasing to be members of the Qualifying Group.


86 Article 9 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.



Not all changes to the Qualifying Group would trigger a clawback, only changes that result in the Transferor and Transferee no longer being members of the Qualifying Group. For example, the clawback may not be triggered if the Transferor and Transferee continue to remain members of the same Qualifying Group in the following circumstances:
* more members join the Qualifying Group without impacting the ownership of the Transferor and Transferee, or
* the Transferor and Transferee are acquired by a third Person at the same time without affecting the ownership requirement, or
* other members of the Qualifying Group (other than Transferor and Transferee) are sold or liquidated.

Example 15: Change in ownership structure that does not trigger change in Qualifying Group

Company M holds 100% of the shares of Company N. Both companies are incorporated and resident in the UAE. Company M and Company N are members of a Qualifying Group and follow the Gregorian calendar year (i.e. year ending on 31 December) as their Tax Period. The companies have not elected to form a Tax Group under Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law. In the Tax Period 2024, the following events take place:

Date
Description
31 March 2024
Company M transfers an asset to Company N on a no
gain or loss basis.

1 June 2024
Company M incorporates a new wholly owned subsidiary outside the UAE (Company F). Company F
is not a Taxable Person in the UAE.
1 December
2024
Company M transfers shares of Company N to
Company F.

Even though Company F is not a member of the Qualifying Group (since it is not a Taxable Person), Company M and Company N continue to be members of the Qualifying Group since Company M indirectly holds 100% shares in Company N. Accordingly, a clawback is not triggered.

If, after a transfer benefiting from Qualifying Group Relief, the Transferee transfers the relevant asset or liability to another Taxable Person within the Qualifying Group without triggering a clawback under Article 26(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law, the clawback under Article 26(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law would be triggered if the original Transferor, the original Transferee and the new Transferee cease to be in a


Qualifying Group within two years from the date of the original transfer, as illustrated below.

Example 16: Clawback triggered in case of a subsequent transfer

Company A holds 100% of the shares in Company B. Company B holds 75% of the shares in Company C. Company A, Company B, and Company C are all incorporated and resident in the UAE. All 3 companies are members of a Qualifying Group and follow the Gregorian calendar year as their Tax Period. In the Tax Periods 2025 and 2026, the following events take place:

Date
Description
1 January 2025
Company A transfers an asset to Company B on a no
gain or loss basis.
31 December
2025
Company B transfers the same asset to Company C on
a no gain or loss basis.
31 March 2026
Company A transfers 25% of the shares in Company B
to a third party.

On the date of the subsequent transfer (31 December 2025), Company A, Company B and Company C are members of the same Qualifying Group. Therefore, this subsequent transfer from Company B to Company C does not trigger a clawback under Article 26(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

On 31 March 2026, Company A and Company C cease to be members of the same Qualifying Group since Company A then indirectly holds 56.25% (75% of 75%) of the shares of Company C, which is less than 75%. As there is no transfer of asset on that date, the clawback under Article 26(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law does not apply.

The clawback under Article 26(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law is triggered if the Taxable Persons cease to be members of the same Qualifying Group. As both Company A and Company C are relevant Taxable Persons, the clawback would be triggered if they cease to be members of the same Qualifying Group. Although the original Transferor (Company A) and the original Transferee (Company B) of the transfer on 1 January 2025 continue to be in a Qualifying Group, Company A would no longer be in a Qualifying Group with Company C as of 31 March 2026. Therefore, the clawback is triggered.

6.2. Consequences of clawback of Qualifying Group Relief

6.2.1. Consequences in hands of the Transferor



Where a clawback is triggered, the transfer of the asset or liability which was previously deemed to be at no gain or loss shall be treated instead as having taken place at Market Value at the date of the original transfer.87 The gain or loss on transfer of the asset or liability shall be included in the Taxable Income of the Transferor for the Tax Period in which the circumstance triggering clawback occurs.88

This means that the clawed back gain or loss arising will be equal to the Market Value of the asset or liability at the date of the original transfer less the net book value of the asset or liability also at that date. When determining the gain or loss:
* the Market Value of the asset or liability at the date of the original transfer is used even if that is different to the Market Value on the date when the clawback is triggered,
* where, within 2 years from the date of the original transfer, only a part of the asset or liability is subsequently transferred outside the Qualifying Group, the gain or loss is calculated for the proportion of the asset or liability subsequently transferred (not the whole asset or liability),89
* the net book value of the asset or liability as at the date of original transfer will be the same amount determined for the purpose of the no gain or loss transfer as per Article 26(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law (see Section 5.2).


87 Article 26(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
88 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
89 Article 5(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.




Generally, on clawback of the relief, the gain or loss on transfer of the asset or liability shall be included in the Taxable Income of the Transferor. However, that gain or loss shall be attributed to the Transferee if the Transferor has ceased to be a Taxable Person.91 In such a scenario, the gain or loss on the original transfer of the asset or liability will be included in the Taxable Income of the Transferee for the Tax Period in which the circumstance triggering clawback occurs.92

The Transferor can cease to be a Taxable Person for various reasons, for example:
* The Transferor ceases to exist due to liquidation, dissolution or merger.
* The Transferor was a Non-Resident Person having a Permanent Establishment in the UAE at the time of the original transfer, but the Permanent Establishment ceases to exist subsequently.
* The Transferor becomes non-resident (without having a Permanent Establishment in the UAE).
* The Transferor becomes an Exempt Person in a subsequent Tax Period.

In some circumstances, the Transferor and Transferee can cease to be a Taxable Person on the same date. For example, this can be the case if they both become an Exempt Person at the start of a certain Tax Period. In such a case, the gain or loss on the original transfer of the asset or liability will be included in the Taxable Income of

90 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
91 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
92 Article 5(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.


the Transferor in line with the general rule. The Transferor shall include this gain or loss in its Taxable Income of its last Tax Period before it becomes an Exempt Person.

6.2.2. Consequences in hands of the Transferee

If a no gain or loss transfer within a Qualifying Group is clawed back, the Transferee will reverse any depreciation, amortisation or other change in the value of the assets and liabilities that has previously been adjusted by the Transferee.93 The Transferee will make this adjustment by including previously disallowed depreciation, amortisation and other changes in the value of the assets and liabilities in the Tax Period when the clawback was triggered.

In addition, after the clawback has been triggered, the Transferee will no longer make the adjustments required under Article 4 of the Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023 (as explained further in section 5.3).94 However, if the transfer was recorded in the Financial Statements at a value that differs from the Market Value, the Transferee will be required to make adjustments under Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.95


93 Article 5(5)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023. 94 Article 5(5)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023. 95 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


Tax Period
Company A
Company B


2024
Company A will not include the gain of AED 2 million (i.e. 12 million - 10 million) in its Taxable Income.
When computing its Taxable Income Company B will add back the depreciation of AED 1.2
million.96










2025
The subsequent sale of the asset by Company B is within 2 years of the date of original transfer, and so will trigger clawback of the Qualifying Group Relief.97

Company A shall treat the transfer to Company B on 1 January 2024 as having taken place at Market Value on 1 January 2024. Company A shall include a gain of AED 2 million (AED 12 million - AED 10 million) in its 2025 Tax Return, being the Tax Period in which Company B subsequently transferred
the asset.
Because the gain on the original transfer is included in the Taxable Income of the Company A (due to the clawback), the gain does not need to be taken into account by the Transferee (Company B).

Further, Company B can claim a deduction for the depreciation adjustment of AED 1.2 million previously made in the Tax Period ending 31 December 2024.
98

















96 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
97 Article 26(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
98 Article 5(5)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023 and Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


7. Compliance requirements

7.1. Election by Transferor

The no gain or loss treatment within the Qualifying Group is only available if the Transferor makes an election to apply the provisions of Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law to a transfer that meets the conditions.99 The election should be made in the Tax Return for the Tax Period in which the transfer, to which the Taxable Person wishes to apply Article 26 for the first time, takes place.100 In other words, the election should coincide with the tax reporting of the Tax Period in which the Transferor, for the first time, transfers any of its assets or liabilities to a member of a Qualifying Group.

Once an election is made by the Transferor, it is irrevocable in the hands of the Transferor and cannot be reversed without the FTA's approval.101 Thus, the election will apply not only to the specific transfer in respect of which it was made, but instead to all transfers of assets and liabilities held on capital account by the Transferor within a Qualifying Group which take place in the Tax Period for which the election was made, as well as any transfers in subsequent Tax Periods.102

Further, the election is valid only if it is made in respect of a transfer that meets the conditions of Qualifying Group Relief. If the Transferor makes an election in respect of a transfer to a member of a Qualifying Group, but subsequently, during audit, it is determined that the transfer does not meet the conditions of Qualifying Group Relief, the election will be treated as invalid and any Tax Return in which Qualifying Group Relief was applied on the assumption that a valid election was made would be incorrect. If the Transferor has tried to make an election, but the election is invalid, an election can be made in a subsequent Tax Period if the relevant conditions are met in that Tax Period. However, if the Transferor has validly made an election in a Tax Period, it is not possible to make an election in subsequent Tax Periods.

An election made by the Transferor shall not be binding on any future transfer of the same asset or liability by another member of the Qualifying Group unless that other member had itself previously made an election in this regard, i.e. each Transferor in a Qualifying Group is required to make its own election, except in relation to an exchange of assets as contemplated in Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.





99 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
100 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
101 Article 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
102 Article 3(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.



7.2. Record keeping

Both the Transferor and the Transferee are required to maintain a record of the agreement to transfer the asset or liability and evidence of the value prescribed under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law.103 Additionally, the Transferee must document the requirements necessary for making any adjustments prescribed under Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.104














































103 Article 6 of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
104 Article 6 of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.


8. Interaction of Qualifying Group Relief with other parts of Corporate Tax Law
8.1. Business Restructuring Relief

A transaction can be eligible for both Qualifying Group Relief and Business Restructuring Relief where all the following conditions are met:
* a Transferor transfers its Business or an independent part of its Business to a Transferee,
* the Transferor continues to exist after the transfer,
* the consideration for the transfer is paid in the form of shares or ownership interests of the Transferee or a Person that has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 50% in the Transferee, and
* the Transferor and Transferee are members of a Qualifying Group.

In such a case, the Transferor can elect for Business Restructuring Relief. However, it is possible that the Transferor in the past already elected for Qualifying Group Relief on each asset and liability (that is held on capital account) and, hence, Qualifying Group Relief is also applicable on the assets and liabilities which are transferred as part of the Business restructuring. If an election has been made for Qualifying Group Relief or Business Restructuring Relief, the transaction will be subject to the condition of that elected relief. This also means that if a clawback is triggered, the relief would be clawed back even if the conditions for a different relief would have been met and would not have resulted in a clawback being triggered.105

If a Transferor has elected for Qualifying Group Relief and it also makes an election for Business Restructuring Relief in respect of a specific Business restructuring, the no gain or loss treatment would be clawed back in the case of a clawback triggered by either of the reliefs. For instance, if the Transferor and the Transferee cease to be in a Qualifying Group within two years of applying Qualifying Group Relief, the no gain or loss treatment would be clawed back, even if no clawback is triggered for Business Restructuring Relief.106 Similarly, if the Transferee transfers an independent part of the Business it has received within two years of a restructuring that attracted Business Restructuring Relief, the no gain or loss treatment would be clawed back on any Business or independent part of the Business transferred, even if no clawback is triggered for Qualifying Group Relief.107 Once a clawback has been triggered, the no gain or loss treatment no longer applies which also means that any subsequent events would no longer trigger an additional clawback.


105 Articles 26(5) and 27(7) of the Corporate Tax Law. 106 Article 26(4)(b) and (5) of the Corporate Tax Law. 107 Article 27(6)(b) and (7) of the Corporate Tax Law.





8.2. Realisation basis

A Taxable Person that prepares its Financial Statements on an accrual basis may elect to take into account gains and losses on a realisation basis if the relevant conditions are met.108 The election can apply on either (a) all unrealised accounting gains and losses,109 or (b) only unrealised gains and losses in relation to those assets and liabilities held on the Taxable Person's capital account.110 If an election is made, the Taxable Person will make adjustments to ensure the Taxable Income is calculated as if the Financial Statements were prepared on a realisation basis.111 A Taxable Person will decide in its first Tax Period whether to make an election and the decision is irrevocable, except under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to approval by the FTA.112




108 Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 109 Article 20(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 110 Article 20(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
111 Article 2(3) and (4) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
112 Article 8(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


A no gain or loss transfer of assets or liabilities under Qualifying Group Relief shall not be considered as a realisation of the assets or liabilities.113

Where a Transferee has received assets and liabilities on a no gain or loss basis under Qualifying Group Relief, the Taxable Income of the Transferee would be determined by making the adjustments outlined in Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023 (see Section 5.3).114 If the Transferee has elected for the realisation basis under Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax Law, the depreciation, amortisation or other change in value adjusted in previous Tax Period(s) and any gain or loss that was not taken into account due to Qualifying Group Relief would be taken into account at realisation.115

8.3. Transitional relief

A Taxable Person's opening balance sheet for Corporate Tax purposes is the closing balance sheet prepared for financial reporting purposes under applicable Accounting Standards on the last day of the Financial Year that ends immediately before its first Tax Period commences.116 Further, adjustments can be made to the Taxable Income of a Taxable Person in respect of gains recognised on Immovable Property, Intangible Assets and Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities owned prior to the Taxable Person's first Tax Period.117

When determining whether these assets were owned prior to the first Tax Period and for assessing the ownership period,118 ownership of the asset by all members of the Qualifying Group should be considered.119 Thus, ownership by a Taxable Person of the relevant assets shall include the ownership by any other member of the Qualifying Group for purposes of applying the transitional rules.

If an asset or liability is transferred on a no gain or loss basis within a Qualifying Group after Corporate Tax has entered into force, the transfer is not a disposal for the purposes of the transitional relief,120 and the ownership period of such an asset and liability is considered to continue and include the ownership period of the Transferee under Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.121




113 Article 9(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
114 Articles 3, 4 and 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
115 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
116 Article 61(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
117 Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
118 Articles 2(1)(a) and 3(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
119 Article 5(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023. 120 Article 9(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023. 121 Article 5(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


However, if the clawback provisions of Article 26(4) of the Corporate Tax Law apply, the asset or liability is considered to be disposed of in the Tax Period when the original transfer took place since the clawback disapplies the Qualifying Group Relief. However, since upon clawback of relief, the gain or loss is included in the Taxable Income in the Tax Period of clawback, the transitional relief should be claimed in the Tax Period when clawback is triggered. There is no need to reopen the earlier Tax Period when the original transfer took place.

In relation to Immovable Property, there are two methods to compute the excluded amount of gains and the Taxable Person can choose either of the methods.
* Valuation method: The excluded amount is the amount of the gain that would have arisen had the Immovable Property been disposed of at Market Value at the start of the first Tax Period, and considering the cost of the Qualifying Immovable Property as the higher of the original cost and the net book value.122
* Time apportionment method: The excluded gain is calculated based on the period elapsed between the time the asset was purchased and the start of the first Tax Period.123

In relation to Intangible Assets, only the time apportionment method applies.

While applying transitional relief to Immovable Property and Intangible Assets, for the purpose of calculating the excluded amount of gain under the time apportionment method, the period of ownership includes the period of ownership by any member of the same Qualifying Group of the Taxable Person that has acquired the relevant assets in accordance with Qualifying Group Relief.124 Any period of ownership before the most recent Non-Qualifying Transfer is excluded.125 A Non-Qualifying Transfer is a transfer that is not covered, or would not have been covered had the Corporate Tax Law been effective, by the Qualifying Group Relief.126

There is only one method available for computing the excluded gain or loss on Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities owned prior to the first Tax Period under transitional relief. The Taxable Person excludes the amount of the gain or loss that would have arisen at the start of the first Tax Period, had the Financial Assets or Financial Liabilities been disposed of at Market Value and considering the cost of these assets or liabilities as being equal to the net book value.127 While considering


122 Article 2(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
123 Article 2(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
124 Article 5(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
125 Article 5(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023. 126 Article 5(2)(c) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023. 127 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities owned by a Taxable Person, ownership by a member of the same Qualifying Group of the Taxable Person should be considered.128

Example 20: Transitional rules on Immovable Property transferred within a Qualifying Group

Date
Description
15 July
2021
Company A (a company resident and incorporated in the UAE) acquired an Immovable Property (a building) from a third party
for AED 10 million.
1
December 2023
Company B was incorporated in the UAE with Company A as its 100% shareholder.
1 January
2024
The net book value of the Immovable Property is AED 9.1 million. The Market Value of the Immovable Property is AED 12 million. Company A elects for transitional relief in respect of the
Immovable Property.
10 April
2024
Company A transfers the Immovable Property to Company B at the Market Value of AED 12.5 million. In the Tax Return for Tax Period 2024, Company A elects to apply Qualifying Group Relief in respect of the transfer.

Since Company A measures the Immovable Property in its Financial Statements on a historical cost basis, the net book value of the Immovable Property in Company A's Financial Statements as on the date of transfer is AED 9 million. The reduction in net book value is on account of depreciation from 1 January 2024 until 10 April 2024 (i.e. an amount of AED 0.1
million based on the depreciation rate claimed by Company A).
1 February
2025
Company B sells the Immovable Property to a third party for
AED 14 million.

Company A and Company B follow the Gregorian calendar year as their Tax Period. The Corporate Tax implications for Company A and Company B in Tax Periods 2024 and 2025 are as follows:

Tax
Period
Company A
Company B
2024
Company A will be considered to have
transferred the Immovable Property at
Company B will report the
Immovable Property at such


128 Article 5(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.



net book value. Thus, the gain of AED
3.5 million (Market Value on date of transfer of AED 12.5 million less net book value on the date of transfer of AED 9 million) will not be included in the Taxable Income of Company A.129

Further, since Company A has transferred the Immovable Property on a no gain or loss basis under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law, the transfer will not be considered as a disposal for
the transitional rules.
value as determined for the purposes of its Financial Statements (here assumed to be the Market Value of the asset of AED 12.5 million).
Company B will adjust amounts of depreciation and changes in value when calculating its Taxable Income.130
2025
The subsequent transfer of the Immovable Property by Company B to a third party will trigger the clawback of the Qualifying Group Relief in the hands of Company A. Accordingly based on the book value of the asset, Company A would derive a gain of AED 3.5 million in the 2025 Tax Period from the original transfer of the asset.

However, upon clawback, the original transfer is no longer on a no gain or loss basis and hence is treated as a disposal for the purposes of the transitional rules. Because of the transitional rules, the amount of clawback gain to be included in the Taxable Income of Company A will be reduced as detailed below.
After clawback of the relief on the original transfer, the requirement to adjust depreciation and changes in value no longer applies.

Company B will include the gain on the sale of the Immovable Property (AED 14 million less the book value AED 12.5 million) i.e. AED
1.5 million in its Taxable Income.

Further, since the transitional relief on Immovable Property has already been applied by Company A upon clawback, Company B is not eligible for
transitional relief on its gain.

Under the transitional rules, there are two methods to compute the amount of the excluded gain. Company A (i.e. the Person required to include the clawback gain in its Taxable Income) may elect for either method:131
* Method 1: Valuation method:

129 Article 26(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
130 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
131 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


The amount of gain that would have arisen if Company A had disposed of the Immovable Property at Market Value at the start of the first Tax Period and the cost of the Financial Asset was the higher of the original cost and the net book value.132

Description
Amounts in AED
Market Value of the Immovable Property at start of
first Tax Period (1 January 2024)
12 million
Higher of the original cost and the net
book value (i.e. AED 10 million vs AED 9.1 million)
10 million
Excluded gain (Market Value - Higher of the original
cost and the net book value)
2 million

* Method 2: Time apportionment method: The excluded gain amount is calculated by applying the following steps to pro-rate the excluded gain based on the period of time elapsed between the purchase of the asset and the start of the first Tax Period.133

Step
Description
Amounts in AED
Step 1: The amount of total gain by reference to the disposal proceeds and the higher of the original cost and the net book value at the start of the first Tax Period.
Disposal proceeds under application of the
clawback
12.5 million

Higher of the original cost and the net
book value (i.e. AED 10 million vs AED 9.1
million)
10 million

Gain
2.5 million
Step 2: The number of days the Immovable Property was owned by the Tax Group before the first Tax Period is divided by the total number of days the
(A) Number of days the Immovable Property is owned by Company A
before the first Tax Period
900 days (i.e. 15 July
2021 to 1 January
2024)

(B) Number of days the Immovable Property is owned by members of
Qualifying Group in total
1,000 days (i.e. 15
July 2021 to 10 April
2024)




132 Article 2(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
133 Article 2(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


Immovable Property was owned.
(i.e. both Company A and
Company B)134


(A)/(B)
90% (900/1,000*100)
Step 3: - Multiply the amount calculated in Step 1 by the amount
calculated in Step 2

AED 2.25 million (AED 2.5 million x 90%).








Transitional relief can apply only where the Taxable Person has made an election in the first Tax Period to adjust their Taxable Income to exclude gains or losses related to the periods preceding the first Tax Period from the disposal of Immovable Property, Intangible Assets and Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities owned prior to the Taxable Person's first Tax Period. Where a Taxable Person has made an election for transitional relief in its first Tax Period and transfers any asset or liability that is eligible for the transitional relief on a no gain or loss basis to a Transferee under Qualifying Group Relief, such Transferee will be eligible for transitional relief on disposal of such asset or liability even if the Transferee has not made an election for transitional relief.



























134 Article 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


9. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
April 2024
* First version


















Registration of Juridical Persons

Corporate Tax Guide | CTGRJP1

August 2023

Contents
1. Glossary	3
2. Introduction	7
2.1. Overview	7
2.1.1. Short brief	7
2.1.2. Purpose of this guide	7
2.1.3. Who should read this guide?	7
2.1.4. How to use this guide	7
2.1.5. Legislative references	8
2.1.6. Status of this guide	9
3. Corporate Tax Registration	10
4. Overview of the Corporate Tax Registration process	12
4.1. Who can register for Corporate Tax?	12
4.1.1. Persons already registered for VAT and Excise Tax	12
4.1.2. Tax Agents for Corporate Tax registering on behalf of another Person	12
4.1.3. Persons not registered for VAT and Excise Tax	13
4.2. How to register	13
4.2.1. The Corporate Tax Registration process	13
4.2.2. Tax Registration application processing time	14
4.3. Key documentation requirements for Corporate Tax Registration purposes	14
4.4. Obligations once registered	15
5. Taxable Persons and Exempt Persons	16
5.1. Who is a Taxable Person?	16
5.2. Who is an Exempt Person?	16
5.2.1. Automatically Exempt Persons	17
5.2.2. Exempt Persons if they notify the Ministry, and meet relevant conditions	17
5.2.3. Exempt Persons if listed in a Cabinet Decision and meet relevant conditions 19 5.2.4.	Exempt Persons upon application to the FTA	20
5.3. What is Exempt Income?	24
6. Resident juridical persons	26
6.1. LLCs, public / private joint stock companies incorporated in the UAE	26
6.2. Foreign entities that are effectively managed and controlled in the UAE	26

6.3. Branches of UAE companies	27
6.4. Resident juridical persons eligible for small business relief	27
7. FTA power to register a Person for Corporate Tax	29
8. Corporate Tax Deregistration	30
9. Updates and Amendments	32

1. Glossary

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses.

Exempt Income: Any income exempt from Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Exempt Person: A Person exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Extractive Business: The Business or Business Activity of exploring, extracting, removing, or otherwise producing and exploiting the Natural Resources of the UAE, or any interest therein as determined by the Minister.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

Foreign Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence outside the UAE of a Resident Person that is determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed in Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established, or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

Government Controlled Entity: Any juridical person, directly or indirectly wholly owned and controlled by a Government Entity, as specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.


Government Entity: The Federal Government, Local Governments, ministries, government departments, government agencies, authorities and public institutions of the Federal Government or Local Governments.

Immovable Property: Means any of the following:
a. Any area of land over which rights or interests or services can be created.
b. Any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed.
c. Any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.

Licence: A document issued by a Licensing Authority under which a Business or Business Activity is conducted in the UAE.

Licensing Authority: The competent authority concerned with licensing or authorising a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Local Government: Any of the governments of the Member Emirates of the Federation.

Mandated Activity: Any activity conducted by a Government Controlled Entity in accordance with the legal instrument establishing or regulating the entity, that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Ministry: Ministry of Finance.

Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business: The Business or Business Activity of separating, treating, refining, processing, storing, transporting, marketing or distributing the Natural Resources of the UAE.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participating Interest: A significant ownership interest in the shares of the juridical person that meets the conditions of Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any natural or juridical person.

Qualifying Investment Fund: Any entity whose principal activity is the issuing of investment interests to raise funds or pool investor funds or establish a joint investment fund with the aim of enabling the holder of such an investment interest to benefit from the profits or gains from the entity's acquisition, holding, management or disposal of investments, in accordance with the applicable legislation and when it meets the conditions set out in Article 10 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Public Benefit Entity: Any entity that meets the conditions set out in Article 9 of the Corporate Tax Law and that is listed in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.

State: United Arab Emirates.

State Sourced Income: Income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE as specified in Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Agent: Any Person registered with the FTA who is appointed on behalf of another Person to represent him before the FTA and assist them in the fulfilment of his Tax obligations and the exercise of their associated Tax rights.

Tax Deregistration: A procedure under which a Person is deregistered for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Registration: A procedure under which a Person registers for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Registration Number ("TRN"): A unique number issued by the FTA to each Person who is registered for Corporate Tax purposes in the UAE.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person liable to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.

2. Introduction

Overview

2.1.1. Short brief

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was signed on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.1.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on registration for Corporate Tax in the UAE for juridical persons. It provides readers with an overview of:

? The Corporate Tax Registration rules;
? How a Person can determine whether they need to register for Corporate Tax; and
? The Corporate Tax Deregistration process.

2.1.3. Who should read this guide?

Any juridical person carrying on a Business or Business Activity in the UAE should read this guide. This includes any non-resident person who has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

2.1.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how the Corporate Tax registration requirements function. The examples in the guide:
- 	show how these requirements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used and all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural person.

This guide is intended to be read in conjunction with other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

2.1.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:

? Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as the "Corporate Tax Law";
? Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023 Regarding the Qualifying Public Benefit Entities for the Purposes of the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023";
? Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 on Specifying the Categories of Businesses or Business Activities Conducted by a Resident or Non-Resident Natural Person that Are Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023";
? Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023 on Determination of a Non-Resident's Persons Nexus for the purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023";
? Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023 on the Executive Regulation of Federal Decree-Law No. (28) of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as ''Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023'';
? Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023 Concerning Exception from Tax Registration for the Purpose of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023";
? Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief for the Purposes of the Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023";

? Ministerial Decision No.115 of 2023 on Private Pension Funds and Private Social Security Funds for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023";
? Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 6 of 2023 on Tax Deregistration Timeline for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 6 of 2023"; and
? Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 7 of 2023 on Provisions of Exemption from Corporate Tax for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023".

2.1.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the provisions relating to the registration of Juridical persons. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of the Corporate Tax Registration rules for juridical persons. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.

3. Corporate Tax Registration

Corporate Tax is a self-assessment regime. This means that a Person is responsible for assessing whether they are in scope of Corporate Tax, and whether they will need to fulfil any Corporate Tax obligations.

Generally, Persons who determine they are within the scope of Corporate Tax is required to register for Corporate Tax. This will allow them to fulfil their Corporate Tax obligations, such as submitting a Corporate Tax Return and paying any Corporate Tax due.

Broadly, Corporate Tax applies to the following "Taxable Persons":
* UAE companies and other juridical persons that are incorporated or effectively managed and controlled in the UAE;
* Natural persons (individuals) who conduct a taxable Business or Business Activity in the UAE as specified in Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023;
* Non-resident juridical persons (foreign legal entities) that have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE;
* Non-resident juridical persons (foreign legal entities) that have a nexus in the UAE arising from earning income from any Immovable Property in the UAE as specified in Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023;
* Juridical persons established in a UAE Free Zone (if meeting the conditions to be considered a Qualifying Free Zone Person, they may benefit from a Corporate Tax rate of 0% on their Qualifying Income);
* Non-resident persons that do not have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE and earn State Sourced Income; and
* Non-resident persons that have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE and earn State Sourced Income that is not related to their Permanent Establishment.

Certain categories of Persons will not be required to register for Corporate Tax if they are specifically excluded in the relevant decision.1 The requirement to register and provide the relevant supporting documentation depends on whether the Person is a natural person (i.e. an individual) or a juridical person (i.e. a legal entity), and whether they are considered a Taxable Person (i.e. a Resident Person or a Non-Resident Person), or an Exempt Person for Corporate Tax.

The table below sets out who will be required to register for Corporate Tax. More details on each of these categories are included in the sections below.



1 Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023.


Once a Person is registered, the Federal Tax Authority (FTA) will issue them with a Tax Registration Number (TRN). This will be their Corporate Tax reference number and should be used when corresponding with the FTA regarding their Corporate Tax affairs.

Table 1: Overview of the Corporate Tax Registration requirements


Overview of who is required to register for Corporate Tax
Taxable Person
Resident juridical person
?
 Non-resident juridical person with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE
?
Non-resident juridical person with a nexus in the UAE
?
Natural person subject to certain conditions
?
Exempt Person

Government Entity
Are not required to register unless they conduct a Business or Business Activity under a Licence issued by a Licensing Authority

Government Controlled Entity
Are not required to register unless they conduct a Business or Business Activity which is not their Mandated Activity

Extractive Business
 Are not required to register unless they conduct a Business which is within the scope of Corporate Tax

Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business
 Are not required to register unless they conduct a Business which is within the scope of Corporate Tax
Qualifying Public Benefit Entity
?
Qualifying Investment Fund
?
Pension and Social Security Fund
?
   Juridical Persons wholly Owned and Controlled by certain other Exempt Persons
?

4. Overview of the Corporate Tax Registration process

Who can register for Corporate Tax?

Most Taxable Persons will be required to register. There is however an exception to this for Non-Resident Persons that derive only State Sourced Income without having a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.2 These Persons will not have to register.

However, where a non-resident juridical person has a nexus in the UAE arising from earning income from any Immovable Property in the UAE, they would be required to register for Corporate Tax.3

An Exempt Person is not ordinarily subject to Corporate Tax provided certain conditions are met. However, some types of Exempt Persons will still be required to register.4

As Corporate Tax is a self-assessment regime, a Person within the scope of the Corporate Tax regime will be responsible for registering themselves for Corporate Tax.

4.1.1. Persons already registered for VAT and Excise Tax

A Person who is already registered for Value Added Tax (VAT) and / or Excise Tax will still be required to register for Corporate Tax if they are within the scope of the Corporate Tax regime. Once registered, they will be issued with a separate TRN for Corporate Tax purposes. The Corporate Tax TRN will be similar to their existing TRN for VAT and / or Excise Tax, but the last digit will be different from their VAT and / or Excise TRN.

4.1.2. Tax Agents for Corporate Tax registering on behalf of another Person

Many Persons will have Tax Agents who will act on their behalf and help them to meet their Corporate Tax obligations, subject to meeting certain conditions. These Tax Agents might already act on their behalf for VAT and Excise Tax and will be able to do so for Corporate Tax, if they are listed with the FTA as Tax Agents for Corporate Tax purposes.






2 Article 2(1)(e) of Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023.
3 Article 4 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
4 Article 4(1)(e) to (i) of the Corporate Tax Law.

4.1.3. Persons not registered for VAT and Excise Tax

Taxable Persons who are not subject to VAT or Excise Tax but are within the scope of the Corporate Tax will be required to register for Corporate Tax purposes.

How to register

An application to register for Corporate Tax can be made on the EmaraTax portal. A Person who is already registered for VAT or Excise Tax can use their existing login details. A Person that has not previously registered with the FTA will be required to create new login credentials the first time they access the EmaraTax portal.

A step by step user guide on the Corporate Tax Registration process is available on the FTA Website, and additional support can be accessed by contacting the FTA helpline on 80082923 during working hours.

4.2.1. The Corporate Tax Registration process

A Person who wishes to register for Corporate Tax must submit a registration application along with the relevant supporting documentation to the FTA. The FTA will review each application and approve or reject it. Once an application is approved, the FTA will issue the Person with a TRN.

Figure 1: Overview of the Corporate Tax Registration process




4.2.2. Tax Registration application processing time

The FTA aims to review the registration application form and respond within 20 business days from the date on which the completed registration application is received.

Where additional information has been requested by the FTA, the FTA will aim to respond to the applicant within 20 business days of receiving the additional information. If the additional information is not submitted within the timeframe specified by the FTA, the application shall be rejected and a new application will need to be submitted.

Key	documentation	requirements	for	Corporate	Tax	Registration purposes

The Corporate Tax Registration process has been designed to be simple and easy to complete for applicants. The information required to complete the registration application should be information that the applicant will already have, or is expected to have.

Applicants should ensure that they have the documentation specified in Table 2 ready before starting the Corporate Tax Registration process.

Table 2: Key documentation requirement for the Corporate Tax Registration process for resident juridical persons

Documentation
Requirement
Trade Licence / Business Licence details (a copy to be uploaded)
Mandatory
Passport of the immediate owner who directly owns at least 25% of the shares of the juridical or Exempt Person (a copy of the photo page to be uploaded)

Mandatory if the owner is an individual
Emirates ID of the immediate owner who directly owns at least 25% of the shares of the juridical person (a copy of the front and back of the Emirates ID to be uploaded)
Mandatory if the owner is an individual and a UAE resident
Passport of authorised signatory (a copy of the photo page to be uploaded)

Mandatory

Emirates ID of authorised signatory (a copy of the front and back of the Emirates ID to be uploaded)
Mandatory if authorised signatory is a UAE resident
Proof of authorisation for the authorised signatory (either a copy of the power of attorney or memorandum of association to be uploaded)

Mandatory

In addition to the documentation requirements outlined above, the FTA can request other information that it believes are necessary to approve or reject the application.

If additional information is required, the FTA will contact the applicant through the EmaraTax portal. An email and / or a SMS notification will be sent to the applicant, and the status of their application will be changed to 'Awaiting Information'. The applicant must provide the information requested within the timeframe specified by the FTA in order for the FTA to continue processing their application.

Obligations once registered

Once a Person has registered for Corporate Tax, they will be subject to a number of administrative Corporate Tax obligations. These include:

? Filing a Corporate Tax Return and paying any Corporate Tax due within 9 months of the end of their Tax Period;5
? Retaining all records and documents which support their tax position for a period of 7 years following the end of the Tax Period to which they relate;6 and
? Ensuring that all of their registration details are up to date and informing the FTA of any changes within 20 business days, in order for administrative penalties not to be imposed.7

























5 Article 48 and Article 53(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
6 Article 56(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
7 Article 6(4) of Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023 specifies that any Taxable Person is required to notify the FTA of any change of his data kept with the FTA within 20 Business Days from the occurrence of the change.

5. Taxable Persons and Exempt Persons

Who is a Taxable Person?

Under the Corporate Tax Law, a Taxable Person is either a Resident Person or a Non- Resident Person. Whether a Person is a Resident or Non-Resident determines the scope of their tax obligations.

A Resident Person can be:
1. A juridical person incorporated or otherwise established or recognised under the applicable legislation in the UAE (including a Person incorporated, established or otherwise registered in a Free Zone);8
2. A juridical person incorporated or otherwise established or recognised under the applicable legislation outside the UAE but "effectively managed and controlled" in the UAE;9 or
3. A natural person that conducts a taxable Business or Business Activity in the UAE in accordance with the provisions of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.10

A Resident juridical person must register for Corporate Tax. Further guidance on Natural Persons will be issued in the near future.


Who is an Exempt Person?

Certain Persons, referred to as Exempt Persons, will be exempt from Corporate Tax. Exempt Persons fall into one of four categories:

1. Automatically Exempt Persons;
2. Exempt if they notify the Ministry of Finance, and meet relevant conditions;
3. Exempt if listed in a Cabinet Decision and meet relevant conditions; and
4. Exempt upon application to, and approval by, the FTA.




8 Article 11(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
9 Article 11(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
10 Article 11(3)(c) and Article 11(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.

In addition, if a juridical person incorporated, established or recognised under the applicable legislation in the UAE only derives Exempt Income,11 this does not exempt the Person from registering for Corporate Tax. The juridical person will still be considered as a Taxable Person and will be required to register for Corporate Tax purposes. Please refer to section 5.3 for further information on Exempt Income.

5.2.1. Automatically Exempt Persons

Government Entities

A Government Entity includes the Federal Government, Local Governments, ministries, government departments, government agencies, authorities and public institutions of the Federal Government or Local Governments.12

Government Entities are automatically exempt from Corporate Tax.13 However, a Government Entity shall be subject to Corporate Tax if it conducts a Business or Business Activity under a Licence issued by a Licensing Authority. Any Business or Business Activity conducted by a Government Entity under a Licence issued by a Licensing Authority shall be treated as an independent Business, the entity will be subject to Corporate Tax in relation to that licensed Business or Business Activity and will be required to register for Corporate Tax.14


5.2.2. Exempt Persons if they notify the Ministry, and meet relevant conditions
Extractive Businesses and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses that meet the relevant conditions

Both Extractive Businesses and Non-Extractive Natural Resource Businesses that


11 Article 22 of the Corporate Tax Law.
12 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
13 Article 5(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
14 Article 5(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

meet the relevant conditions will be exempt from Corporate Tax.15 Where an Extractive Business or Non-Extractive Natural Resource Business conducts an independent Business that is not ancillary to its ordinary business and this Business accounts for more than 5% of their total Revenue, it will be required to register with the FTA for Corporate Tax.16







15 Article 7(1) and Article 8(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
16 Article 7(3) and Article 8(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.2.3. Exempt Persons if listed in a Cabinet Decision and meet relevant conditions

Government Controlled Entities

A Government Controlled Entity is any juridical person, directly or indirectly wholly owned and controlled by a Government Entity, as specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.17

Government Controlled Entities that conduct Mandated Activities and are listed in a Cabinet Decision will be exempt from Corporate Tax.18 However, a Government Controlled Entity that conducts Business that is not its Mandated Activity will be subject to Corporate Tax in relation to that activity and must register for Corporate Tax.19




17 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law. 18 Article 6(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 19 Article 6(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Qualifying Public Benefit Entity

A Qualifying Public Benefit Entity is an organisation formed by private individuals, government or non-governmental bodies for carrying out religious, charitable, scientific, artistic, cultural, athletic, educational, healthcare, environmental, humanitarian, animal protection without the motive of making profit for distribution to private persons.20

In this regard, Cabinet Decision No. 37 of 2023 has been issued which specifies the Qualifying Public Benefit Entities for Corporate Tax purposes. Qualifying Public Benefit Entities listed in this Cabinet Decision must still register for Corporate Tax purposes and obtain a Corporate Tax TRN.21 The application to register for Corporate Tax purposes for Qualifying Public Benefit Entities will be available as of 1 October 2023.22

A Public Benefit Entity that is not listed in the Cabinet Decision as a Qualifying Public Benefit Entity will not be considered as an Exempt Person, and will be a Taxable Person. As a result, it should register for Corporate Tax according to its relevant entity type, for example as a resident juridical person.


5.2.4. Exempt Persons upon application to the FTA

Certain Persons may be exempt from Corporate Tax if they meet specific conditions. These Persons must make an application to the FTA to be exempt from Corporate Tax.23 The entities which may be exempt if an application is approved by the FTA are:

1. Public and private pension or social security funds;
2. Qualifying Investment Funds;


20 Article 9(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
21 Article 51(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
22 Article 2(1) of the FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023.
23 Article 4(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

3. Juridical persons incorporated in the UAE that are wholly owned and controlled by certain Exempt Persons; and
4. Any other Person as may be determined in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Before making an application to be exempt from Corporate Tax, these entities must register for Corporate Tax and obtain a TRN.24 The possibility to submit a Corporate Tax Registration application for the four categories of Persons listed above will be available as of 1 June 2024.25

Once an application to be exempt is approved by the FTA, the entity will still be required to submit a declaration.26 If the entity ceases to be exempt, it will be required to comply with ordinary Corporate Tax obligations.

Pension and social security fund

Public pensions and social security funds27 are typically initiated, sponsored and governed by a Federal or Local Government Entity. However, as the entitlement to receive the benefits from these funds and any surplus assets of the fund normally rests with the beneficiaries, they are not typically considered to be wholly owned and controlled by the Government Entity which oversees them.

Public and private pension and social security funds will be required to register for Corporate Tax as they will be considered to be a Taxable Person.28 Once registered, the funds can make an application to the FTA to be treated as an Exempt Person, provided all the relevant conditions are met.29

A private social security fund may apply to the Authority to be exempt from Corporate Tax where all of the following conditions are met:
1. The fund comprises a pool of assets which have been assigned by law or contract as fund assets or the acquisition of these assets has been financed by or with the use of contributions to the fund for the exclusive purpose of financing the End of Service Benefit.
2. The income of the fund solely comprises income as specified in the relevant decision.
3. The fund must have an Auditor.30


24 Article 51(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
25 Article 2(2) of the FTA Decision No. 7 of 2023.
26 Article 53(5) of the Corporate Tax Law. 27 Article 4(1)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law. 28 Article 51(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 29 Article 4(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
30 Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.


A private pension fund may apply to the Authority to be exempt from Corporate Tax Law where all of the following conditions are met:
1. The fund comprises a pool of assets which have been assigned by law or contract as pension plan assets or the acquisition of these assets has been financed by or with the use of contributions to a pension plan for the exclusive purpose of financing the pension plan benefits.
2. The fund grants pension plan members or beneficiaries a right or other contractual claim or entitlement, against its assets or earnings.
3. The income of the fund solely comprises income as specified in the relevant decision.
4. The fund must have an Auditor.31


Qualifying Investment Funds

Whilst there are various structures that collective investment funds may take, the term investment fund refers to a contractual arrangement or juridical person whose primary purpose is to pool investor funds and invest such funds in accordance with a defined investment policy.

Regardless of the type of investment fund, the Corporate Tax Law seeks to ensure the tax neutrality of investment funds so that investors, whether domestic or foreign, are in the same or a similar tax position as if they had invested directly in the underlying assets of the fund.

In recognition of the neutrality principle, an investment fund can make an application to the FTA for exemption from Corporate Tax as a Qualifying Investment Fund where



31 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 115 of 2023.

it meets the relevant conditions.32 However, the investment fund must register for Corporate Tax before doing so.33


Wholly owned subsidiaries of certain Exempt Persons

A juridical person that is incorporated in the UAE and is wholly owned by a Government Entity, Government Controlled Entity, Qualifying Investment Fund or a public / private pension or social security fund will be exempt from Corporate Tax where certain conditions are met.34

In order to qualify for the exemption, the juridical person must undertake part or whole of the activity of the Exempt Person, be engaged exclusively in holding assets or investing funds for the benefit of the Exempt Person or only carry out activities that are ancillary to those carried out by the Exempt Person. If one of these conditions is met, the juridical person will be required to register for Corporate Tax first and then can make an application to the FTA to be exempt from Corporate Tax.35



32 Article 10(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 33 Article 51(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 34 Article 4(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law.
35 Article 4(3) and Article 51(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.





What is Exempt Income?

Under the Corporate Tax Law, there are a number of types of income that are not subject to Corporate Tax. These are known as Exempt Income.36 If a Person only receives Exempt Income in a Tax Period, they will not have a Corporate Tax liability as the income they receive is not taxable. However, the Person is not exempted from Corporate Tax obligations. A Taxable Person that only receives Exempt Income would still be considered as a Taxable Person and is required to register for Corporate Tax and meet its Corporate Tax obligations.

The types of income, and related expenditure, which are exempt from Corporate Tax include:

1. Dividends and other profit distributions received from UAE resident juridical persons;37
2. Dividends and other profit distributions received from a Participating Interest in a foreign juridical person;38
3. Other income from a Participating Interest as specified in Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law;39
4. Income received from a Foreign Permanent Establishment where the election




36 Article 22 of the Corporate Tax Law.
37 Article 22(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 38 Article 22(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 39 Article 22(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

has been made to not take into account its income from Corporate Tax;40 and
5. Income earned by a Non-Resident Person from operating aircrafts or ships used in international transportation, where certain conditions are met.41





















































40 Article 22(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
41 Article 22(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.

6. Resident juridical persons

A juridical person is an entity established or otherwise recognised under the laws and regulations of the UAE, or under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction, that has a legal personality separate from its founders, owners and directors. A juridical person can take a number of forms, which are set out below.

LLCs, public / private joint stock companies incorporated in the UAE

Examples of juridical persons "incorporated or otherwise established or recognised in the UAE" include, but are not limited to, Limited Liability Companies (LLCs), Private Shareholding Companies (PSCs) and Public Joint Stock Companies (PJSCs).


Foreign entities that are effectively managed and controlled in the UAE

A foreign juridical person that is effectively managed and controlled in the UAE will be considered a Resident Person for Corporate Tax purposes.

For a juridical person to be considered effectively managed and controlled in the UAE, it is not necessary for its board members (or equivalent) to be domiciled or resident in the UAE. Effective management and control is not determined by where the decisions made by the ultimate decision makers are implemented or managed on a day-to-day basis. A juridical person could have multiple places of management in different jurisdictions, but generally will have only one place of effective management and control. This is where the key management or commercial decisions are regularly and predominantly made throughout the relevant Tax Period.





Branches of UAE companies

A UAE branch of a Resident Person shall be treated as one and the same Taxable Person.42 In fact, a UAE branch of a domestic juridical person is regarded as an extension of its head office and, therefore, is not considered a separate juridical person. As a result, a branch of a UAE company will not be able to register for Corporate Tax individually. The head office must register for Corporate Tax on behalf of all of the UAE branches. This is also applicable for Free Zone branches of mainland UAE juridical persons and also for mainland branches of Free Zones Persons.


Resident juridical persons eligible for small business relief

Small business relief will be available to businesses that meet the required conditions.43 Specifically, an eligible Taxable Person can claim small business relief if their Revenue is below or equal to AED 3,000,000 (three million dirhams) in the relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods commencing 1 June 2023.44

Where the small business relief election is made, the business will be treated as having no Taxable Income during the relevant Tax Period. This means that they will have no Corporate Tax liability. However, meeting the conditions to elect for small business relief does not exempt that Taxable Person from meeting their Corporate Tax compliance obligations such as filing a Tax Return. Appropriate records need to be maintained to support the eligibility for the election being made.






42 Article 11(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
43 Article 21(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
44 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

As the election must be made in the Corporate Tax Return, the Taxable Person electing for small business relief must register for Corporate Tax before they can make the election.


7. FTA power to register a Person for Corporate Tax

If the FTA believes that a Person is a Taxable Person and should have registered for Corporate Tax but has failed to do so, the FTA can, at its discretion and based on information available to the FTA, register a Person for Corporate Tax.45

A Person has the right to appeal against a tax assessment issued following a registration initiated by the FTA if they disagree with such a decision.



























45 Article 51(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

8. Corporate Tax Deregistration

If a juridical person is no longer subject to Corporate Tax, they should deregister. This will most commonly occur when a Business or Business Activity ceases, but could also occur due to dissolution or liquidation or other circumstances.

In order to deregister from Corporate Tax, a juridical person must make an application to the FTA.46 Once approved, the date of deregistration will be the date the Business or Business Activity ceased, unless the FTA determines that another date should be used.47

In order to be deregistered, a Taxable Person must meet all of their tax compliance obligations such as filing all of the relevant Tax Returns and paying all Corporate Tax liabilities and administrative penalties due.48

A juridical person is required to file a Tax Deregistration application within 3 months of the date the entity ceases to exist, cessation of the Business, dissolution, liquidation or otherwise.49




46 Article 52(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 47 Article 52(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 48 Article 52(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
49 Article 2(2) of FTA Decision No. 6 of 2023.




9. Updates and Amendments

Date of amendment
Amendments made
August 2023
* First version
















Small Business Relief

Corporate Tax Guide | CTGSBR1

August 2023














Contents

Glossary	4
Introduction	8
Overview	8
2.1.1. Short brief	8
2.1.2. Purpose of the guide	8
2.1.3. Who should read this guide?	8
2.1.4. How to use this guide	8
2.1.5. Legislative references	9
2.1.6. Status of this guide	10
What is Small Business Relief?	11
Who is not eligible for Small Business Relief?	13
3.1.1. Members of an MNE	13
3.1.2. Qualifying Free Zone Persons	14
3.1.3. Artificial separation	14
How does Small Business Relief work?	14
3.2.1. What does it mean to have no Taxable Income?	16
3.2.2. Tax Losses	16
3.2.3. General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule	17
3.2.4. Other reliefs	17
3.2.5. Exempt Income	17
How to elect for Small Business Relief	18
Eligibility conditions for Small Business Relief	19
Restriction to Tax Periods ending on or before 31 December 2026	19
Illustrative examples	19
What is a Resident Person?	20
4.3.1. Natural Persons	20
4.3.2. Juridical Persons	21
4.3.3. Exclusion of members of MNEs	22
4.3.4. Exclusion of Qualifying Free Zone Persons	23
4.3.5. Permanent Establishments of Non-Resident Persons	23
4.3.6. UAE sourced income and foreign income	23
4.3.7. Accounting standards for Revenue calculation	24

4.3.8. Implications for Resident Persons that are VAT registered	25
Illustrative examples	25
    Impact of the Small Business Relief on other Corporate Tax rules	27
Tax Losses	27
5.1.1. Implications of election for Small Business Relief on Tax Losses	27
5.1.2. Illustrative examples	28
General Interest deduction limitation rules	29
5.2.1.Implications of election for Small Business Relief on General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule	30
Exempt Income	31
5.3.1.Interaction between Exempt Income and Small Business Relief	31
Other Reliefs	32
5.4.1.Implications of election for Small Business Relief on other reliefs	32
Deductions	33
5.5.1.Deductible expenditure rules do not apply to those who elect for Small Business Relief	33
Transfer pricing documentation	34
5.6.1.Transfer pricing documentation requirements for those who elect for Small Business Relief	34
Participation Exemption for owners of UAE Juridical Persons that elect for Small Business Relief	35
Tax Groups and Small Business Relief	35
    Compliance obligations, record keeping requirements and administration for Small Business Relief	37
Requirement to self-assess, register and make an election	37
Requirement to file Tax Returns	37
Records required to be kept to demonstrate Revenue	37
Record keeping period	38
Artificial separation	40
FTA's powers to address artificial separation	40
Types of artificial separation	40
Purpose of artificial separation test	40
Factors taken into account when determining whether a Business has been artificially separated	41

7.4.1. Financial links	41
7.4.2. Economic links	41
7.4.3. Organisational and structural links	42
Illustrative examples	42
Updates and Amendments	46

Glossary

Accounting Income: The accounting net profit or loss for the relevant Tax Period as per the financial statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or activities, conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business Restructuring Relief: Business Restructuring Relief is a Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to transfer their entire Business, or an independent part of their Business (such as for example certain mergers and demergers), at no gain or loss to another Taxable Person in exchange for shares or other ownership interests.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on Juridical Persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses.

Country-by-Country Reporting: An obligation to submit a Country-by-Country Report as introduced by Action 13 of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting ("BEPS") initiative led by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD") and the Group of Twenty ("G20") industrialised nations. This is enforced in the UAE via Cabinet Decision No. 44 of 2020 on Organizing Reports submitted by Multinational Companies.

Country-by-Country Report: A report that declares annually the details of each tax jurisdiction in which a Multinational Enterprise Group ("MNE") does business. This includes the amount of revenue, profit before income tax and income tax paid and accrued. It also requires MNEs to report their number of employees, stated capital, retained earnings and tangible assets in each tax jurisdiction. Finally, it requires MNEs to identify each entity within the group doing business in a particular tax jurisdiction and to provide an indication of the business activities each entity engages in.

Double Taxation Agreement: An international agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Exempt Income: Any income exempt from Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Foreign Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence outside the UAE of a Resident Person that is determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed in Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A Juridical Person incorporated, established, or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

Interest: Any amount accrued or paid for the use of money or credit, including discounts, premiums and profit paid in respect of an Islamic financial instrument and other payments economically equivalent to Interest, and any other amounts incurred in connection with the raising of finance, excluding payments of the principal amount.

Juridical Person: An entity established or otherwise recognised under the laws and regulations of the UAE, or under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction, that has a legal personality separate from its founders, owners and directors.

Licence: A document issued by a Licensing Authority under which a Business or Business Activity is conducted in the UAE.

Licensing Authority: The competent authority concerned with licensing or authorising a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Natural Person: Individual human being (distinct from a Juridical Person).

Net Interest Expenditure: The Interest expenditure amount that is in excess of the Interest income amount as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participating Interest: An ownership interest in the shares or capital of a Juridical Person that meets the conditions referred to in Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Permanent Establishment (PE): A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any Natural Person or Juridical Person.

Personal Investment: Investment activity that a Natural Person conducts for their personal account that is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022 on Issuing the Commercial Transactions Law.

Qualifying Free Zone Person: A Free Zone Person that meets the conditions of Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law and is subject to Corporate Tax under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Income: Any income derived by a Qualifying Free Zone Person that is subject to Corporate Tax at the rate specified in Article 3(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Real Estate Investment: Any investment activity conducted by a Natural Person related to, directly or indirectly, the sale, leasing, sub-leasing, and renting of land or real estate property in the UAE that is not conducted, or does not require to be conducted through a Licence from a Licensing Authority.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.

Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief.

Tax Loss: Any negative Taxable Income as calculated under the Corporate Tax Law for a given Tax Period.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Registration Number ("TRN"): A unique number issued by the FTA to each Person who is registered for Corporate Tax purposes in the UAE.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is liable to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

Turnover: The gross amount of income derived during a Gregorian calendar year.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.

Wage: The wage that is given to the employee in consideration of their services under the employment contract, whether in cash or in kind, payable annually, monthly, weekly, daily, hourly, or by piece-meal, and includes all allowances, and bonuses in addition to any other benefits provided for, in the employment contract or in accordance with the applicable legislation in the UAE.

Introduction

Overview

2.1.1. Short brief

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023. The Corporate Tax Law includes a specific relief for small Businesses.

2.1.2. Purpose of the guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on the Small Business Relief for Corporate Tax in the UAE. It provides you with and overview of:

? what the Small Business Relief is;
? who is eligible for it;
? how it works;
? how long it is available for; and
? related compliance requirements.

Any Person carrying on a Business in the UAE should review the relevant sections of this guide and consider if the Small Business Relief is applicable to them.

2.1.3. Who should read this guide?

Any Person carrying on a Business in the UAE and consider that they may qualify for the Small Business Relief provided for in the Corporate Tax Law should read this guide to determine if they qualify for Small Business Relief.

2.1.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of Small Business Relief function. The examples in the guide:
- show how these aspects operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used and all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural person.

This guide is intended to be read in conjunction with other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

2.1.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:

? Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as the "Corporate Tax Law";
? Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 on Specifying the Categories of Businesses or Business Activities Conducted by a Resident or Non-Resident Natural Person that Are Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023";
? Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023 on Qualifying Income for the Qualifying Free Zone Person for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023";
? Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 on Organising Reports Submitted by Multinational Companies is referred to as "Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020'';
? Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief for the Purposes of the Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023";
? Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023";

? Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023 on the Participation Exemption for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023";
? Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023 on the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023";
? Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023 on Transfers Within a Qualifying Group for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023"; and
? Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023 Regarding Qualifying Activities and Excluded Activities for the Purposes of Federal Decree Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023".

2.1.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the provisions relating to Small Business Relief. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of the Small Business Relief. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.

What is Small Business Relief?

Small Business Relief is provided to small Businesses resident for Corporate Tax purposes in the UAE to ease their implementation of the Corporate Tax regime. Small Business Relief reduces the compliance obligations faced by small Businesses in the early stages of the Corporate Tax regime, primarily by alleviating the burden of having to calculate and pay Corporate Tax.

Any eligible Taxable Person (being a Resident Taxable Person - either a Natural Person or a Juridical Person) with Revenue below or equal to AED 3,000,0001 in a relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods that end on or before 31 December 20262 can elect to be treated as having no Taxable Income in that period, and will not be obliged to calculate its Taxable Income or complete a full Tax Return.

This will mean that these eligible Taxable Persons that have elected for the Small Business Relief will benefit from both:

? administrative relief: they will not be required to calculate their Taxable Income and will benefit from simplified tax return filing and record keeping requirements, including the ability to prepare their Financial Statements using the cash basis of accounting;3 and
? tax relief: they are not required to pay any Corporate Tax on income earned in the Tax Period.

Eligible Taxable Persons can elect for Small Business Relief in their Tax Return. Once the election has been made, they will be able to complete a simplified Tax Return and benefit from the relief.

Table 1: Overview of the Small Business Relief

If election for Small Business Relief is made
If no election for Small Business Relief is made
Required to register for Corporate Tax
?
?
Required to file a full Tax Return
?
?
Can file a simplified Tax Return
?
?



1 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
2 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
3 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.


Required to calculate Taxable Income
?
?
No Corporate Tax to pay
?
Depends on the level of Taxable Income
Subject to meeting necessary conditions:


- Can accrue and utilise Tax Losses for the relevant Tax Period
?
?
- Can accrue and utilise Excess Interest Expenditure for the relevant Tax Period
?
?
- Can carry forward Tax Losses and Excess Interest Expenditure from previous Tax Periods
?
?
- Can apply reliefs for transfers within a Qualifying Group or for Business restructuring transactions
?
?
- Must comply with transfer pricing documentation requirements
?
?
- Must comply with the Arm's Length Principle
?
?

As Table 1 demonstrates, Businesses that elect for Small Business Relief enjoy significant tax and administrative benefits, while remaining subject to a number of compliance requirements.

Revenue threshold

In order to elect for Small Business Relief, an eligible Taxable Person's Revenue must be below or equal to AED 3,000,000 for the relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods4. Where a Taxable Person's Revenue exceeds AED 3,000,000 in a Tax Period, the Taxable Person will no longer be able to elect for Small Business Relief, even if its Revenue is equal to or falls below the AED 3,000,000 threshold in subsequent Tax Periods.5


4 The first Tax Period in relation to Corporate Tax commences on or after 1 June 2023.
5 Article 2(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

The Revenue for the purpose of this Article shall be determined in accordance with the applicable accounting standards accepted in the UAE.6

Revenue is defined in the Corporate Tax Law as "the gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period". This includes, for example, income from all of the sales a business makes, as well as any other gross income it receives, such as income from the sale of an asset. Revenue is therefore different from profit, which is the difference between a business' Revenue and its costs. The amount of profit a business makes does not have an impact on its eligibility for Small Business Relief. Revenue should be determined based on the arm's length principle.

When determining the Revenue, the income from all Business Activities undertaken by a particular juridical person must be taken into account, and certain defined Business Activities in the case of a natural person.

Who is not eligible for Small Business Relief?

Small Business Relief will be available to UAE Resident Persons whose Revenue does not exceed AED 3,000,000 for the relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods. However, there are two key exceptions to this criterion:

1. Where the business is a member of a Multinational Enterprise Group (MNE);7
2. Where the business is a Qualifying Free Zone Person.8

3.1.1. Members of an MNE

Small Business Relief will not be available to a business that is a constituent company of an MNE. MNEs are groups of companies that operate in more than one country and that have a total consolidated group revenue of more than AED 3.15 billion and are required to prepare a Country-by-Country Report under the UAE's Country-by-Country Reporting legislation.9

A constituent company means:

? Any separate business unit of an MNE that is included in the consolidated financial statements of the MNE for the purposes of preparing the financial reports;
? Any business unit that is excluded from the MNE's consolidated financial statements solely on size or materiality grounds; or

6 Article 2(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
7 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
8 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
9 Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 on Organising Reports Submitted by Multinational Companies.

? Any PE of a separate business unit of the MNE if the business unit prepares separate financial statements for the PE.

Even if a UAE constituent company of an MNE has Revenue equal to or below AED 3,000,000 for the relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods, the UAE constituent company will still not be able to elect for Small Business Relief.

3.1.2. Qualifying Free Zone Persons

Small Business Relief will not be available to Qualifying Free Zone Persons. Qualifying Free Zone Persons already benefit from a 0% Corporate Tax rate on their Qualifying Income.10 A Qualifying Free Zone Person is a Free Zone Person that:11

? Maintains adequate substance in the UAE;
? Derives Qualifying Income as specified in the relevant Cabinet Decision;12
? Has not elected to be subject to Corporate Tax;
? Complies with the requirements under the Arm's Length Principle and transfer pricing documentation; and
? Meets the following other conditions prescribed by the Minister;13
- The non-qualifying Revenue derived by the Qualifying Free Zone Person in a Tax Period does not exceed 5% (five percent) of the total Revenue of the Qualifying Free Zone Person in that Tax Period or AED 5,000,000 (five million dirhams), whichever is lower;14 and
- Prepares audited financial statements.

3.1.3. Artificial separation

Small Business Relief will also not be available where a Person artificially separates their Business into more than one entity in order to ensure that the Revenue of each entity is below the threshold for Small Business Relief.15 Where the FTA establishes that artificial separation has taken place, the Person will have to repay any unpaid Corporate Tax and any penalties that may be charged.16

How does Small Business Relief work?

Small Business Relief allows eligible Resident Persons to elect to be treated as having no Taxable Income in a Tax Period where they have Revenue of less than or equal to

10 Article 3(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 11 Article 18(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 12 Cabinet Decision No. 55 of 2023.
13 Article 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.
14 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 139 of 2023.
15 Article 6(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
16 Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

AED 3,000,000 in a relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods ending on or before 31 December 2026. As a result of this treatment, they will pay no Corporate Tax. The amount of Corporate Tax liability that is not payable based on the relief will depend on the profitability of the Business. This is because Corporate Tax would be paid at the rate of 0% on Taxable Income up to AED 375,000 and 9% on Taxable Income above AED 375,000 had the Small Business Relief not been elected for. This means that the amount of Corporate Tax relief enjoyed by Businesses that are able to elect for Small Business Relief is relative to their profitability, as shown in Table 2 below.

Table 2: Small Business Relief and relative profitability


Business 1
Business 2
Business 3
Revenue (AED)
2,800,000
2,800,000
2,800,000
Eligible for Small Business Relief?
?
?
?
Costs (AED)
2,000,000
1,800,000
1,300,000
Profits (AED)
800,000
1,000,000
1,500,000
Corporate Tax Payable calculation (AED)
375,000 @ 0%
425,000 @ 9%
375,000 @ 0%
625,000 @ 9%
375,000 @ 0%
1,125,000 @ 9%
Corporate Tax due (AED)
38,250
56,250
101,250

Small Business Relief is an optional relief, and Resident Persons that wish to benefit from this advantage must elect for this relief within their Tax Return. Once the Tax Return for the relevant Tax Period has been submitted with no election to benefit from the Small Business Relief, there would be no possibility to claim this benefit at a later stage.

As the election must be made in a Tax Return, an eligible Taxable Person seeking to claim Small Business Relief will first need to register with the FTA for Corporate Tax and obtain a TRN in order to be able to make the election. Additionally, they will need to keep information to demonstrate their eligibility for the relief. This includes keeping records of their Revenue. More details on the compliance obligations that apply to Businesses that elect for Small Business Relief can be found in Section 6.

3.2.1. What does it mean to have no Taxable Income?

Ordinarily, businesses would calculate their Taxable Income by calculating their Accounting Income and making adjustments for the Corporate Tax treatment of certain income and expenditure. This includes excluding Exempt Income, such as dividends, and adding back non-deductible expenditure, such as fines. Businesses may also be eligible for other reliefs, such as for transfers within a Qualifying Group, which would be applied when calculating Taxable Income. Businesses then have to calculate the amount of Corporate Tax they must pay based on their Taxable Income.

By contrast, Small Business Relief treats eligible Taxable Persons as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period. This means that they will not have to calculate their Taxable Income, and that they do not need to identify the relevant expenses that they would otherwise be required to in order to deduct or apply any other reliefs.

As Corporate Tax is only charged on Taxable Income, Taxable Persons electing for Small Business Relief for that Tax Period do not need to pay Corporate Tax.

Businesses who elect for Small Business Relief will complete a simplified Tax Return. Electing for Small Business Relief means that certain other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that are relevant to the calculation of Taxable Income will not apply. Additionally, Businesses that elect for Small Business Relief will not be required to maintain Transfer Pricing documentation.17 These exclusions are intended to further reduce the compliance burden. See Section 5 for detailed information on each of these provisions.

3.2.2. Tax Losses

If an eligible Resident Person elects for Small Business Relief for a Tax Period, it will not be able to apply the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law relating to Tax Losses in that Tax Period.18 This means that they cannot accrue, utilise or transfer any Tax Losses.

If the Resident Person has unutilised Tax Losses brought forward from prior Tax Periods at the beginning of a Tax Period in which it elects for Small Business Relief, such Tax Losses will continue to be carried forward and can be used in the next Tax Period in which the Resident Person has Taxable Income and has not elected for




17 Article 21(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.
18 Article 21(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Small Business Relief, subject to meeting the conditions of carrying forward and utilising available Tax Losses.19

More information on the treatment of Tax Losses when electing for Small Business Relief can be found in Section 5.1.

3.2.3. General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule

If an eligible Resident Person elects for Small Business Relief for a Tax Period, the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule will not apply in that Tax Period.20 This means that they cannot accrue or utilise any Net Interest Expenditure in that Tax Period, nor carry it forward to any subsequent Tax Periods.21

If the Resident Person has carried forward Net Interest Expenditure incurred in previous Tax Periods where an election for Small Business Relief was not made, at the beginning of a Tax Period in which it elects for Small Business Relief, such Net Interest Expenditure will be carried forward and can be used in the next Tax Period in which it has Taxable Income and has not elected for Small Business Relief, subject to the relevant provisions of the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule.22

More information on the application of the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule when electing for Small Business Relief can be found in Section 5.2.

3.2.4. Other reliefs

In addition to the Tax Loss Rules and General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule, there are a number of other reliefs that do not apply where a Resident Person has elected for Small Business Relief.23 This includes being able to transfer assets at net book value within a Qualifying Group and Business Restructuring Relief.

More information on the treatment of these reliefs can be found in Section 5.4.

3.2.5. Exempt Income

Certain types of income, known as Exempt Income, are not taxable. However, this distinction is only relevant for businesses that need to calculate their Taxable Income.



19 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 and Articles 37, 38 and 39 of the Corporate Tax Law.
20 Article 21(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
21 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
22 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 and Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law.
23 Article 21(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.

The rules on Exempt Income therefore do not apply to businesses that elect for Small Business Relief.24

More information on the treatment of Exempt Income when electing for Small Business Relief can be found in Section 5.3.

How to elect for Small Business Relief

Eligible Taxable Persons that meet the conditions for Small Business Relief and wishing to benefit from Small Business Relief must first register for Corporate Tax. Then they must make an election in their Tax Return in order to benefit from the relief. This election must be made for each Tax Period that a Tax Return is filed in order for the relief to apply for that Tax Period.

More information on Tax Returns and broader compliance requirements when electing for Small Business Relief can be found in Section 6.




































24 Article 21(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Eligibility conditions for Small Business Relief

In order to be able to elect for Small Business Relief, a Person must be a Resident Person for Corporate Tax purposes and have Revenue of less than or equal to AED 3,000,000 in the relevant Tax Period and any previous Tax Periods.

There are no additional requirements. The only exception is that members of MNEs and Qualifying Free Zone Persons are not eligible for Small Business Relief. See Section 3.1. for more details on MNEs and Qualifying Free Zone Persons.

Restriction to Tax Periods ending on or before 31 December 2026

Small Business Relief will be available for Tax Periods that begin on or after 1 June 2023. Small Business Relief will be available for Tax Periods that end before or on 31 December 2026 in which the Revenue in the relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods was less than or equal to AED 3,000,000.

Illustrative examples







What is a Resident Person?

There are specific rules within the Corporate Tax Law for determining whether a Person is a Resident Person, and these differ from many other international residence rules that look to where someone lives or resides. The rules are also different for Natural Persons (i.e. individuals) and Juridical Persons (e.g. companies).

A short explanation of how the Corporate Tax residence rules work is provided below.

4.3.1. Natural Persons

Natural Persons are individuals and will be considered as Resident Persons for Corporate Tax purposes if they conduct a taxable Business or a Business Activity in the UAE generating Turnover above a set threshold determined in a Cabinet Decision. In this regard, Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 specifies that the threshold is AED 1,000,000 of Turnover derived within the Gregorian calendar year.25

However, income derived by a Natural Person from the following three sources shall not be regarded as being derived from Businesses or Business Activities that are subject to Corporate Tax, regardless of the amount of income derived from such sources:

25 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.

? Wages;
? Personal Investment income; and
? Real Estate Investment income.26

Where a Natural Person receives income from any of these three sources, such income will not be subject to Corporate Tax, and are excluded from the AED 1,000,000 Turnover threshold.27

Where a Natural Person derives income from Businesses or Business Activities above the AED 1,000,000 threshold during a Gregorian calendar year, he will be subject to Corporate Tax and will be required to register for Corporate Tax. In this instance, he may be able to claim Small Business Relief if they meet the requirements of the Small Business Relief.

4.3.2. Juridical Persons

Juridical Persons are entities that have a separate legal personality from their owners. Common examples include Limited Liability Companies (LLCs), Private Shareholding Companies (PSCs) and Public Joint Stock Companies (PJSCs).

A Juridical Person will be a Resident Person if it is incorporated or otherwise established or recognised under the applicable legislation in the UAE,28 or incorporated otherwise established or recognised under the applicable legislation outside the UAE but "effectively managed and controlled" in the UAE.29

Whether a foreign legal entity is effectively managed and controlled in the UAE depends on the facts and circumstances specific to that entity. However, a business is generally considered to be effectively managed and controlled where key management and commercial decisions concerned with broader strategic and policy matters are made. This is distinct from day to day operational management.

Free Zone Persons are Juridical Persons that are incorporated, established or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, and are Resident Persons for Corporate Tax purposes. This means that Free Zone Persons may be eligible for Small Business Relief, subject to having Revenue that is equal to or below AED 3,000,000.30 However, Qualifying Free Zone Persons are not eligible for Small Business Relief. A Qualifying Free Zone Person is a Free Zone Person that meets certain criteria. These are set out at Section 3.1.2.

26 Article 2(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
27 Article 2(3) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
28 Article 11(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
29 Article 11(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. A discussion of the factors which make a Business effectively managed and controlled in the UAE is outside of the scope of this document.
30 Article 11(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.







4.3.3. Exclusion of members of MNEs

Constituent companies of MNEs will not be eligible for Small Business Relief, even if they are Resident Persons.31

An MNE is any group that is made up of two or more companies that operate in separate countries, or includes a single company that is resident in one country and subject to tax in another, and has total consolidated group revenue of at least AED
3.15 billion.32

A constituent company means any separate business unit of an MNE that is included in the consolidated financial statements of the MNE for the purposes of preparing the financial reports, or any business unit that is excluded from the MNE's consolidated financial statements solely on size or materiality grounds. In addition, any PE of a separate business unit of the MNE will be considered a constituent company if the business unit prepares separate financial statements for the PE.

The definition of a "constituent company" is based on Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 on Organising Reports Submitted by Multinational Companies. Therefore, any changes that are made to this definition in future will potentially affect a Taxable Person's eligibility for Small Business Relief.


31 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
32 Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 Organising Reports Submitted by Multinational Companies.


4.3.4. Exclusion of Qualifying Free Zone Persons

Qualifying Free Zone Persons will not be eligible for Small Business Relief, even if they are Resident Persons and have Revenue that is equal to or less than AED 3,000,000 in the relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods.33

Free Zone Persons that are not Qualifying Free Zone Persons are eligible for Small Business Relief and can elect for Small Business Relief if they are a Resident Person and their Revenue does not exceed AED 3,000,000 in the relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods.

Qualifying Free Zone Persons that elect to be subject to Corporate Tax under Article 19 of the Corporate Tax Law for a specific Tax Period are then considered as Free Zone Persons and can elect for Small Business Relief if they meet the requirements for Small Business Relief.

4.3.5. Permanent Establishments of Non-Resident Persons

In general, PEs in the UAE of Non-Resident Persons would not be eligible for the Small Business Relief as they are not considered as Resident Persons. However, if the Non- Resident Person is based in a country which has a Double Taxation Agreement in force with the UAE and if that Agreement includes a provision dealing with non- discrimination of a Permanent Establishment based on the OECD Model Tax Convention or the UN Model Double Tax Convention,34 its UAE PE would be eligible for the Small Business Relief if the required conditions to apply the relief are met.

4.3.6. UAE sourced income and foreign income

Many businesses will earn income from within and outside of the UAE. Both of these sources of income must be considered when calculating Revenue. This is because Revenue is based on gross income and includes all of the income that a Business earns.

Juridical Persons must include all of their foreign and UAE income when calculating their Revenue for Small Business Relief purposes. However, Natural Persons should only take into account foreign income that is related to their taxable Business or Business Activity in the UAE (in addition to their domestic income). This is aligned to the rules for Taxable Income.




33 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
34 Article 24(3) of the OECD Model Tax Convention or the UN Model Double Tax Convention.

4.3.7. Accounting standards for Revenue calculation

Accounting standards are sets of rules and principles that are managed by regulatory bodies, and that govern how businesses report their financial activities. Some of the rules and principles differ between regulatory bodies and, as a result, the choice of accounting standard will determine and may impact the amount of Revenue a business is determined to have earned in a Tax Period.

Businesses that elect for Small Business Relief will be able to prepare financial statements based on the cash basis of accounting, if their revenue does not exceed AED 3,000,000.35

Revenue is the gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period calculated according to applicable accounting standards. According to Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023, the applicable accounting standard is International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") or IFRS for SME's.36 However, a Person may prepare Financial Statements using the Cash Basis of Accounting, where the Person derives Revenue that does not exceed AED 3,000,000.37 Thus, a business may apply either IFRS (or IFRS for SME's), or a Cash Basis of Accounting in order to calculate their Revenue for the purposes of determining if they are eligible to elect the Small Business Relief. However, the FTA has the right to challenge this choice if the outcome is unreasonable.

It is important to note that Revenue is not restricted to the sale of goods or services by a business. It includes all income earned in the period. For example, if a business sells an asset like a vehicle, or a part of its business, the proceeds of these sales must be included in its Revenue calculation. Non-cash receipts (e.g. goods received in terms of a barter transaction) should be included in Revenue at the market value.

Figure 1: Calculation of Revenue and Profit
Calculation of Revenue and profit


 Other Income

Operating Expenses

Cost of sales

			

Revenue	Costs	Profit



35 Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
36 Articles 4(1) and 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
37 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 o 2023.


As Figure 1 above demonstrates, Revenue is not the same as profit. Businesses do not take into account their expenses or costs when calculating their Revenue.


4.3.8. Implications for Resident Persons that are VAT registered

Businesses that are registered for VAT are required to charge VAT on certain products or services that they sell. The VAT charged should not be included in the calculation of Revenue. This is because the VAT collected must be transferred to the FTA and does not belong to the Business.

Small Business Relief is a Corporate Tax relief. It does not change the Resident Person's compliance requirements for VAT or any other purpose in any way. This means that while some Taxable Persons can benefit from Small Business Relief for Corporate Tax purposes and therefore have simplified Corporate Tax compliance requirements, their VAT compliance requirements will continue as before.

Illustrative examples






Impact of the Small Business Relief on other Corporate Tax rules

Businesses that elect for Small Business Relief are excluded from applying certain other Corporate Tax reliefs and rules. This is because these reliefs are relevant for the calculation of Taxable Income, and Small Business Relief treats eligible Taxable Persons as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period. However, they will still need to comply with the filing obligations set out in the Corporate Tax Law.

Eligible Taxable Persons that elect for Small Business Relief are also exempt from the requirement to maintain transfer pricing documentation. This measure is intended to further reduce the compliance burden on small Businesses.

Tax Losses

If a Taxable Person has negative Taxable Profit, known as a Tax Loss, it can offset its Tax Loss against its Taxable Income in later Tax Periods. If the Taxable Person is a Juridical Person, it will also be able to transfer Tax Losses to other Juridical Persons, subject to certain conditions being met.38

5.1.1. Implications of election for Small Business Relief on Tax Losses

When an eligible Taxable Person elects for Small Business Relief, the rules on Tax Losses will not apply in that Tax Period.39 This means that in the Tax Period where an eligible Taxable Person elects for Small Business Relief, the Taxable Person will not be able to accrue, utilise or transfer Tax Losses.

If a Taxable Person has unutilised Tax Losses from a previous Tax Period where an election to apply the Small Business Relief was not made, these will be carried forward to future Tax Periods, and can be offset against Taxable Income in the future when they do not elect for Small Business Relief, subject to the conditions set out in the Corporate Tax Law.40











38 Article 37 of the Corporate Tax Law.
39 Article 21(2)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
40 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

5.1.2. Illustrative examples


Example 11: Tax Losses

ABC LLC is a Resident Person that started trading on 1 January 2025. In the Tax Period ending 31 December 2025, ABC LLC had Revenue of AED 2,500,000 and expenses and costs of AED 3,500,000. This resulted in ABC LLC having a negative Taxable Income (i.e. a Tax Loss) of AED 1,000,000 for the 31 December 2025 Tax Period.

As a Resident Person whose Revenue does not exceed AED 3,000,000, ABC LLC is eligible to elect for Small Business Relief.

If ABC LLC elects for Small Business Relief, it will be treated as having no Taxable Income and benefit from simplified compliance requirements. Electing for Small Business Relief means that the Tax Loss incurred will not be declared to the FTA and cannot be carried forward to future Tax Periods.

If ABC LLC chooses not to elect for Small Business Relief, it will be able to declare its Tax Loss to the FTA and the Tax Loss can be carried forward to be utilised in future Tax Periods. However, in order to do this, ABC LLC would have to comply with ordinary Corporate Tax compliance requirements, including calculating Taxable Income and completing a full Tax Return.






General Interest deduction limitation rules

The amount of Interest expenditure that Businesses can deduct in each Tax Period when calculating their Taxable Income may be limited.41 Businesses can deduct their Net Interest Expenditure up to 30% of their accounting earnings before the deduction of interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) in that Tax Period - this is known as the general Interest deduction limitation rule. These rules only apply to Businesses whose Net Interest Expenditure is greater than a set threshold.

The limitation on the deductible Net Interest Expenditure shall not apply where the Net Interest Expenditure for the relevant Tax Period does not exceed AED 12,000,000.42

Net Interest Expenditure which exceeds 30% of the Business's EBITDA cannot be deducted due to this limitation in the Tax Period it is incurred, and instead can be carried forward for ten Tax Periods from the period in which the Net Interest Expenditure was disallowed.43 In addition to the amount being limited, there are rules that limit the circumstances in which a deduction can be made for Interest expenditure incurred on a loan obtained, directly or indirectly, from a Related Party.44

41 Article 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.
42 Article 8 of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
43 Article 30(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
44 Article 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.2.1.	Implications of election for Small Business Relief on General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule
The limitations on the deduction of Interest expenditure do not apply to Businesses in the Tax Periods that they have elected for Small Business Relief.45 This also means that Businesses will not be able to accrue Net Interest Expenditure that can be carried forward to later years or use Interest expenditure from previous years.46

If a Business has Net Interest Expenditure carried forward from a previous Tax Period, this will be carried forward to future Tax Periods, and can be utilised in future Tax Periods in which the Business does not elect for Small Business Relief.47 However, the Tax Periods in which Businesses elect for Small Business Relief will continue to be counted for the purposes of limiting the carry forward to ten subsequent Tax Periods from the Tax Period in which the Net Interest Expenditure was disallowed.








45 Article 21(2)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
46 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
47 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

Exempt Income

Certain types of income are not taxable. These are known as Exempt Income, and when calculating Taxable Income, Businesses must exclude these items. Exempt Income includes:

? Dividends and other profit distributions received from Juridical Persons resident in the UAE;
? Other income and gains from a Participating Interest in a Juridical Person resident in the UAE;
? Dividends and other profit distributions received from a Participating Interest in a foreign Juridical Person; and
? Income of a Foreign Permanent Establishment, subject to meeting certain conditions.48

5.3.1.	Interaction between Exempt Income and Small Business Relief

The rules on Exempt Income do not apply to Businesses that have elected for Small Business Relief.49 This means that all income, even if it would not be taxable, must be included when a Resident Person calculates its Revenue for Small Business Relief Purposes.







48 Article 22 of the Corporate Tax Law.
49 Article 21(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Other Reliefs

Businesses can benefit from relief where assets or liabilities are transferred within a Qualifying Group, and for certain Business restructuring transactions. Where certain conditions are met, both parties in these types of transactions are able to record the transaction as taking place at net book value. This means that there will be no gain or loss attributed to either party for Corporate Tax purposes.

As Business Restructuring Relief and relief for transfers within a Qualifying Group impact both parties in the transaction, businesses will need to consider the impact of their choice on the other party to the transfer or business restructuring transactions they are involved in.

5.4.1.	Implications of election for Small Business Relief on other reliefs

These reliefs are not available to Businesses in the Tax Periods for which they elect for Small Business Relief.50 Small Business Relief works by treating Businesses as if they had no Taxable Income. Therefore, the amount for which a transaction is treated as having taken place will have no impact on the Business tax position.





Deductions

Certain expenditures are disallowed or limited for Corporate Tax purposes. As these rules differ from ordinary accounting rules, this means that, when calculating their Taxable Income, Businesses must exclude or adjust some deductions.

5.5.1.	Deductible expenditure rules do not apply to those who elect for Small Business Relief

The rules on deductions do not apply to Businesses in Tax Periods for which they have elected for Small Business Relief.53 Small Business Relief is based on Revenue alone and, as it works by treating Businesses as if they had no Taxable Income, there will be no requirement to consider deductions. This means that any expenditure, even if it would not ordinarily be allowable for Corporate Tax purposes, will not impact a Business that has elected for Small Business Relief.





Transfer pricing documentation

Transfer pricing is an internationally recognised approach used to determine the price that should be charged by a taxable person when conducting transactions with related parties or connected persons. Transfer pricing is applied on cross-border transactions to prevent base erosion and profits shifting between taxable entities and non or low- taxed entities.

The FTA can require a Business to file its transfer pricing disclosure and other supporting documentation together with its Tax Return, or within 30 days of being requested to provide it by the FTA.54

5.6.1.	Transfer pricing documentation requirements for those who elect for Small Business Relief

Transfer pricing documentation rules do not apply to Businesses in the Tax Period for which they elect for Small Business Relief.55

It is important to note that this provision relates to the requirement to provide a disclosure at the same time as its Tax Return, or within 30 days of it being requested by the FTA, and the requirement to maintain a master and local file. It does not prevent the FTA from enquiring into the Resident Person's Corporate Tax affairs, or reviewing its transactions, including those with its Related Parties. The Resident Person must also ensure that they have considered and complied with the Arm's Length Principle.


54 Article 55(1) and Article 55(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
55 Article 21(2)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.




Participation Exemption for owners of UAE Juridical Persons that elect for Small Business Relief

Dividends from companies resident in the UAE are exempt from Corporate Tax. In addition, other income and gains from UAE resident companies may also be exempt if the relevant conditions under the Participation Exemption are met.56

A Participating Interest is a long-term ownership interest in a Juridical Person that provides the basis for the exercise of some level of control or influence over the activities of the Participation. There are a number of conditions which must be satisfied for a Participating Interest to exist.57 One of these conditions is that the Juridical Person is subject to Corporate Tax at a rate of at least 9%.58

Although Businesses that elect for Small Business Relief will effectively not have a Corporate Tax liability, they are still considered to be subject to Corporate Tax.

As a result, Persons that hold a Participating Interest in a Business that elects for Small Business Relief should be able to benefit from the Participation Exemption relief, subject to meeting the relevant conditions. This also applies in the case of Persons with capital gains and the other income.59

Any dividends received by a Taxable Person electing for Small Business Relief from UAE resident companies are exempt and are not subject to the Participation Exemption conditions.

Tax Groups and Small Business Relief

Companies under common ownership (and meeting other relevant conditions) are able to form a Tax Group.60 This allows these companies to be treated as a single Taxable Person, reducing the compliance burden on individual companies by consolidating accounts and eliminating intra-group transactions, and increasing flexibility in the utilisation of Tax Losses.




56 Article 23(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
57 Article 23(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
58 Article 23(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 6 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
59 Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.
60 Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

A Tax Group is able to elect for Small Business Relief if its Revenue is equal to or below AED 3,000,000. As a single Taxable Person, the Revenue threshold for Small Business Relief will apply to the Tax Group as a whole, rather than to each member of the Tax Group. Irrespective of how many companies make up the Tax Group, the Revenue threshold of AED 3,000,000 will apply to the Tax Group as a whole.


Compliance obligations, record keeping requirements and administration for Small Business Relief

Requirement to self-assess, register and make an election

In order to claim Small Business Relief, the eligible Taxable Person must first be registered for Corporate Tax. It then can elect for the relief through the filing of a Tax Return. An election must be made in each Taxable Period.

An eligible Taxable Person that has elected for Small Business Relief remains a Taxable Person for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law. This means that it will continue to be required to meet its Corporate Tax compliance obligations in each Tax Period. This includes the obligation to register for Corporate Tax, file a simplified Tax Return and retain all relevant documents and records to support their Corporate Tax filings.

Requirement to file Tax Returns

Businesses will be required to make the election for Small Business Relief in their Tax Return. Therefore, the requirement to file Tax Returns is not impacted by the eligibility for the Small Business Relief.

Businesses that elect for the Small Business Relief will however benefit from a simplified Tax Return, reducing the amount of information they need to provide, and the amount of time needed to complete the Tax Return.

Records required to be kept to demonstrate Revenue

The Corporate Tax Law includes a number of record-keeping requirements. These are in addition to the requirements already imposed on Businesses and their agents by the Tax Procedures Law.

Under the Corporate Tax Law, all Businesses are required to maintain records and documentation that:

? support the information provided in a Tax Return or in any other document to be submitted to the FTA;61 and
? enable the Taxable Person's Taxable Income to be readily ascertained by the FTA.62



61 Article 56(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
62 Article 56(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Small Business Relief works by treating eligible Resident Persons as having no Taxable Income if their Revenue is equal to or below AED 3,000,000 for the relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods. Therefore, in order to demonstrate that they have no Taxable Income, the eligible Resident Persons must be able to provide evidence to the FTA that their Revenue did not exceed the Small Business Relief threshold for all relevant Tax Periods.

As every Business is different, there is no prescribed list of documentation or records that should be maintained. However, examples of documents which need to be kept include but is not limited to:

? Bank statements;
? Sales ledgers;
? Invoices or other records of daily earnings, such as till rolls;
? Order records and delivery notes; and
? Other relevant Business correspondence.

There is no requirement that documents are maintained in their original format and it may be possible to keep them in an alternative format. For example, paper receipts could be scanned and stored electronically. Whatever storage medium is chosen, the records need to be readable and available to the FTA on request.

Businesses are responsible for the storage of their own records and documentation. Taxable Persons must provide the FTA with any information, documents or records reasonably required by the FTA when requested to do so. The records must, therefore, be easily accessible if the FTA requests them.

Record keeping period

All Businesses must keep records and documents for seven years following the end of the Tax Period to which they relate.63

This requirement applies to the Tax Period to which the documents relate, and not the Tax Period in which they were created. For example, if a Taxable Person uses the cash basis accounting method, they may have invoices which were raised in the Tax Period before the one in which they were paid. In this instance the seven-year period starts from the end of the Tax Period in which the invoices were paid, and not the date that they were created.






63 Article 56 of the Corporate Tax Law.




Artificial separation

Artificial separation occurs when a Business fragments its activity into different parts to operate under the Small Business Relief threshold.

FTA's powers to address artificial separation

The FTA has the power to counteract transactions or arrangements which have been entered into to gain a Corporate Tax advantage. Engaging in artificial separation to benefit from Small Business Relief is considered a Corporate Tax advantage under the General Anti-Abuse Rule of the Corporate Tax Law.64

If the FTA determines that a Business has artificially separated its activities, and its overall Revenue exceeds AED 3,000,000 for the relevant Tax Period, it will not be eligible for Small Business Relief. The Business will have to repay any Corporate Tax which it would have owed if the Business had not been artificially separated in order for the separate entities to elect for Small Business Relief. A penalty may also be imposed on the Business.

Types of artificial separation

Artificial separation can take a range of forms but generally fall into one of three categories:

? Functional separation: This involves artificially separating the different functions of a Business, for example, separating drinks and foods sales in a restaurant;
? Geographical separation: This involves artificially separating the different locations of a Business where the same activity is carried on at each location, for example, a chain of cafes; and
? Temporal separation: This involves artificially separating a Business such that different Persons operate it at different times. This can be, for example, a succession of different legal entities that operate for a short period of time but cease operation when their Revenue reaches the Small Business Relief threshold. It may also occur where different companies claim to only operate at certain times, for example, on set days of the week.

Purpose of artificial separation test

There are legitimate circumstances in which a Business may separate its activities or choose to operate through separate entities. For example, someone may wish to

operate their Business using more than one limited company in order to limit their legal liability. Therefore, the fact alone that a Business operates through more than one entity is not sufficient to demonstrate that the Business has been artificially separated.

In order to determine whether a Business has been artificially separated, the FTA will undertake an artificial separation test. The FTA will review the activity that has been separated to determine:

? Whether the separation was undertaken for a valid and genuine commercial purpose; and
? Whether substantially the same Business or Business Activity is being conducted.

In order for the FTA to conclude that a Business has been artificially separated, both elements must be considered.65

Factors taken into account when determining whether a Business has been artificially separated

When considering whether a Business has been artificially separated the FTA will consider the individual facts and circumstances of the Business being reviewed, including the financial, economic and organisational links between the separate entities.

7.4.1. Financial links

Financial links between entities can be an indicator of artificial separation. Key questions to consider include:

? Does one entity financially support another?
? Is one entity financially viable without the support of the other?

Ordinarily, one Business would not expect to be financially supported by another. Support in this context can mean one entity lending or giving money to another. It is important to note that this is distinct from an ordinary commercial relationship in which an entity charges market interest or a fee to lend money to another entity.

7.4.2. Economic links

Economic links between entities can also indicate that a Business has been artificially separated. Key questions to consider include:

? Do the activities of the entities mutually benefit each other?
? Do the entities have the same group of customers?

If the activities of two or more entities mutually benefit each other this can be an indicator that they are in Business together. Having the same group of customers is an additional example of economic links that can indicate artificial separation.

7.4.3. Organisational and structural links

Organisational and structural links can be important indicators that artificial separation has taken place. Organisational links show how closely related the operations of two entities are. Key questions to consider include:

? Do the entities conduct Business from the same premises or using the same equipment?
? Does one or several managers oversee the activities of both entities or would the entities have the same directors or board members?
? Do the same employees work for both entities?
? Do the entities jointly advertise or market their Businesses?
? Would a customer know that they were dealing with two separate Business entities?

There are genuine circumstances in which two Businesses operate from the same premises. In addition, employees are generally free to work for more than one employer if they wish. Therefore, these questions need to be considered in the context of the Business being reviewed.

Illustrative examples



restaurant. Other employees work in both the hotel and the restaurant.

On 1 January 2025, Mr X created a limited company, ABC LLC, to operate the restaurant. Mr X wholly owns and controls ABC LLC.

ABC LLC does not pay rent to Mr X for the use of the ground floor of the hotel. Guests continue to pay for breakfast at the hotel reception and the restaurant continues to be closed to the public. Mr Y is still the manager of both the hotel and the restaurant, and Mr X's other employees continue to work in both the hotel and restaurant. ABC LLC has a separate bank account and at the end of each month Mr X pays ABC LLC the amounts that hotel guests have made for breakfast or room service in the past month.

At the end of the Tax Period ending on 31 December 2025, Mr X's Revenue was AED 1,850,000 and ABC LLC's Revenue was AED 1,300,000. Mr X cannot elect for Small Business Relief as his Revenue previously exceeded AED 3,000,000. ABC LLC elected for Small Business Relief.

This is functional artificial separation, as Mr X and ABC LLC are operating substantially the same Business. This is on the basis that Mr X and ABC LLC are closely economically linked. As the restaurant is not open to the public, ABC LLC has the exact same group of customers as Mr X. The financial links between Mr X and ABC LLC are also strong. Mr X is ABC LLC's sole income stream and it is not clear how ABC LLC could be sustained without receiving hotel guests. Mr X and ABC LLC are also organisationally close. The hotel and restaurant have shared management and staff and, given that the restaurant is in the hotel and payment for restaurant meals is made to the hotel, it is not clear that a hotel guest would understand that they are dealing with two separate entities.






Example 22: Temporal artificial separation

Mr X wholly owned ABC LLC, a company which he incorporated in the UAE on 1 January 2025. Mr X was the sole employee of ABC LLC and the company's clients understood that by contracting ABC LLC they were paying for Mr X's services.

On 1 March 2025 ABC LLC had made sales of AED 2,800,000. On 2 March 2025 ABC LLC deregistered for Corporate Tax and in its final return declared Revenue of AED 2,800,000 and elected for Small Business Relief.

On the same day, 2 March 2025, Mr X incorporated DEF LLC. DEF LLC provided the same services to the same clients that ABC LLC had, with Mr X as the sole employee of the company. On 6 September 2025 DEF LLC had made sales of AED 2,750,000. On 6 September 2025 DEF LLC deregistered for Corporate Tax and in its final return declared Revenue of AED 2,750,000 and elected for Small Business Relief.

On the same day, 6 September 2025, Mr X incorporated XYZ LLC. Mr X is XYZ's sole employee and XYZ LLC offers the same services to the same clients that DEF LLC and ABC LLC had previously.

This is temporal artificial separation. Mr X is operating substantially the same Business through different entities by incorporating companies through which he offers his services, and deregistering them for Corporate Tax when their sales get close to the Small Business Relief threshold. Each successive entity works with the same clients and each client appears to understand that they will receive Mr X's services. Hence, the structuring of Mr X's Business was to gain a Corporate Tax advantage and the artificially separated entities would not be able to elect for Small Business Relief.






Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
August 2023
* First version

	















Tax Groups
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGTGR1

January 2024


Contents
1. Glossary	5
2. Introduction	11
2.1. Overview	11
2.2. Purpose of this guide	11
2.3. Who should read this guide?	12
2.4. How to use this guide	12
2.5. Legislative references	12
2.6. Status of this guide	13
3. What is a Tax Group?	15
4. Conditions to form a Tax Group	16
4.1. Juridical persons condition	18
4.2. Resident Persons condition	18
4.2.1. Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law and under Double Taxation Agreements	18
4.2.2. Dual resident persons	19
4.2.3. Documentation to prove tax residence	21
4.2.4. Parent Company held by a non-resident person	22
4.3. Share capital ownership condition	22
4.3.1. What is share capital?	23
4.3.2. Ownership of share capital	24
4.3.3. Determining the 95% share capital ownership threshold	25
4.3.4. Indirect ownership	27
4.3.5. Transfer of shares between members of a Tax Group	30
4.3.6. Transfer of shares outside the Tax Group	31
4.4. Voting rights condition	32
4.4.1. General	32
4.4.2. Extraordinary voting rights	33
4.4.3. Indirect holding of voting rights	33
4.5. Profits and net assets condition	34
4.5.1. Profits condition	34
4.5.2. Entitlement to at least 95% of the Subsidiary's net assets	35
4.5.3. Impact of different share classes	35

4.5.4. Transfer of shares outside the Tax Group	36
4.5.5. Indirect holding of rights to profits or net assets	37
4.6. Exempt Person condition and Qualifying Free Zone Person condition	37
4.6.1. General	37
4.6.2. Exception for Government Entities	38
4.6.3. Small Business Relief	38
4.7. Financial Year condition	39
4.7.1. General	39
4.7.2. Newly established juridical person joining a Tax Group	40
4.7.3. Change of Tax Period in order to form or join a Tax Group	40
4.8. Accounting Standards condition	41
5. Forming a Tax Group and tax compliance obligations 43
5.1. Application to FTA to form a Tax Group	43
5.2. Responsibilities of the Parent Company of a Tax Group	43
5.3. Liability for Corporate Tax Payable	44
5.4. Tax Registration of the Tax Group and members of the Tax Group	45
5.5. Tax Deregistration of the Tax Group and members of the Tax Group	45
6. Change in members of a Tax Group	46
6.1. General	46
6.2. Joining a Tax Group	48
6.2.1. Subsidiary joins a Tax Group	48
6.2.2. Newly incorporated entity joins a Tax Group	49
6.3. Leaving a Tax Group	49
6.3.1. General	49
6.3.2. Subsidiary ceases to exist upon transfer of Business	50
6.4. Change of the Parent Company of a Tax Group	52
6.5. Compliance impact of changes in a Tax Group	53
6.5.1. Tax Deregistration	53
6.5.2. Financial Statements	54
7. Cessation of a Tax Group	56
7.1. General	56
7.2. Tax Deregistration of a Tax Group	58
8. Taxable Income of a Tax Group	59
8.1. Determining the Taxable Income of a Tax Group	59

8.1.1. Elimination of intra-group transactions	59
8.1.2. Exception to elimination of intra-group transactions	60
8.2. Consequence of leaving a Tax Group or cessation of Tax Group on transfers within the Tax Group	61
8.3. Application of the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law to Tax Groups	64
8.3.1. Application of reduced Corporate Tax rate and Small Business Relief	64
8.3.2. Application of ownership conditions at the level of Tax Group	64
8.3.3. Application of Qualifying Group Relief	65
8.3.4. Application of limitation of Tax Losses carried forward	66
8.3.5. Application of election for realisation basis	67
8.3.6. Deduction of expenditure	69
8.3.7. Application of transitional rules	69
8.4. Treatment of Subsidiaries which have shareholders outside the Tax Group	72
9. Attribution of Taxable Income between members of a Tax Group	73
9.1. Situations in which attribution is required	73
9.2. Principles of attribution of Taxable Income	73
9.3. Application of arm's length standard	74
9.4. Lending transactions between Tax Group members	75
10. Tax Losses	78
10.1. Tax Losses applicable to Tax Groups	78
10.2. Order of utilisation of Tax Losses	79
10.2.1. Limits on utilisation	79
10.2.2. Order of utilisation where there are several Tax Losses	80
10.2.3. Utilisation of restricted Tax Group Tax Losses	82
10.2.4. Interaction with Business Restructuring Relief	83
10.3. Impact of changes in the members of a Tax Group on Tax Losses	84
10.4. Transfer of Tax Losses	85
11. Interest Deduction Limitation Rule	86
11.1. Application of General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule to Tax Groups	86
11.2. Impact of changes in the members of a Tax Group on unutilised Net Interest Expenditure	87
11.2.1. General	87
11.2.2. Order of utilisation of unutilised Net Interest Expenditure	88
11.2.3. Interaction with Business Restructuring Relief	90

11.3. Impact of a Tax Group that includes Banks and Insurance Providers	91
12. Foreign Tax Credits and Foreign Permanent Establishment	92
12.1. Foreign Tax Credit	92
12.1.1. Impact of Tax Group on Foreign Tax Credit	92
12.2. Foreign Permanent Establishments	93
12.2.1. Application of Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption to Tax Groups 93
12.2.2. Calculation of Taxable Income of Foreign Permanent Establishment	93
13. Updates and Amendments	95

1. Glossary

Accounting Standards: The accounting standards specified in Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.

Accrual Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income when earned and expenditure when incurred.

Administrative Penalties: Amounts imposed and collected under the Corporate Tax Law or the Tax Procedures Law.

Bank: A Person licensed in the UAE as a bank or finance institution or an equivalent licensed activity that allows the taking of deposits and the granting of credits as defined in the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, professional, vocational, service or excavation activities or anything related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business Restructuring Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for business restructuring transactions, available under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.

Cash Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income and expenditure when cash payments are received and paid.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.
?
Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses.

Corporate Tax Payable: Corporate Tax that has or will become due for payment to the FTA in respect of one or more Tax Periods.

Dividend: Any payments or distributions that are declared or paid on or in respect of shares or other rights participating in the profits of the issuer of such shares or rights which do not constitute a return on capital or a return on debt claims, whether such payments or distributions are in cash, securities, or other properties, and whether


payable out of profits or retained earnings or from any account or legal reserve or from capital reserve or revenue. This will include any payment or benefit which in substance or effect constitutes a distribution of profits made in connection with the acquisition or redemption or cancellation of shares or termination of other ownership interests or rights or any transaction or arrangement with a Related Party or Connected Person which does not comply with Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Double Taxation Agreement: An International Agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Exempt Income: Any income exempt from Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Exempt Person: A Person exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Financial Asset: Financial asset as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Financial Liability: Financial liability as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.

Financial Year: The Gregorian calendar year, or the twelve-month period for which the Taxable Person prepares Financial Statements.

Foreign Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence outside the UAE of a Resident Person that is determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed in Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Foreign Tax Credit: Tax paid under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction on income or profits that may be deducted from the Corporate Tax due, in accordance with the conditions of Article 47(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.


Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule: The limitation provided under Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law.

IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.

IFRS for SMEs: International Financial Reporting Standard for small and medium- sized entities.

Immovable Property: Means any of the following:
a. Any area of land over which rights or interests or services can be created.
b. Any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed.
c. Any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.

Insurance Provider: A Person licensed in the UAE as an insurance provider that accepts risks by entering into or carrying out contracts of insurance, in both the life and non-life sectors, including contracts of reinsurance and captive insurance, as defined in the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Intangible Asset: An intangible asset as defined in the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person.

International Agreement: Any bilateral or multilateral agreement, or any other agreement to which the UAE is a party, that has been ratified by the parties.

Interest: Any amount accrued or paid for the use of money or credit, including discounts, premiums and profit paid in respect of an Islamic financial instrument and other payments economically equivalent to interest, and any other amounts incurred in connection with the raising of finance, excluding payments of the principal amount.

Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.


Membership or Partnership Capital: The capital paid to a juridical person where the paid capital is divided into membership or partnership interests by a Person in order to be a member or partner and have the rights of membership or partnership in that juridical person.

Net Interest Expenditure: The Interest expenditure amount that is in excess of the Interest income amount as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Ordinary Shares: The category of capital stock or equivalent ownership interest, which gives its owner, on a share-by-share basis, equal entitlement to voting rights, profits, and liquidation proceeds.

Parent Company: A Resident Person that can make an application to the FTA to form a Tax Group with one or more Subsidiaries in accordance with Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participating Interest: An ownership interest in the shares or capital of a juridical person that meets the conditions referred to in Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participation: The juridical person in which the Participating Interest is held.

Participation Exemption: An exemption from Corporate Tax for income from a Participating Interest, available under Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.

Preferred Shares: The category of capital stock or equity interest which gives its owner priority entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds ahead of owners of Ordinary Shares.

Qualifying Free Zone Person: A Free Zone Person that meets the conditions of Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law and is subject to Corporate Tax under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Group: Two or more Taxable Persons that meet the conditions of Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Qualifying Group Relief: A relief from Corporate Tax for transfers within a Qualifying Group, available under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.

Redeemable Shares: The category of capital stock or equity interest which the juridical person issuing this instrument has agreed to redeem or buy back from the owner of this instrument at a future date or after a specific event, for a predetermined amount or with reference to a predetermined amount.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.

Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

Specific Interest Deduction Limitation Rule: The limitation provided under Article 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.

State: United Arab Emirates.

Subsidiary: A Resident Person that can make an application to the FTA to form a Tax Group with a Parent Company in accordance with Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Deregistration: A procedure under which a Person is deregistered for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Group: Two or more Taxable Persons treated as a single Taxable Person according to the conditions of Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Loss: Any negative Taxable Income as calculated under the Corporate Tax Law for a given Tax Period.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Registration: A procedure under which a Person registers for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.



Tax Registration Number: A unique number issued by the FTA to each Person who is registered for Corporate Tax purposes in the UAE.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the State under the Corporate Tax Law.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.

Unincorporated Partnership: A relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance to Taxable Persons, helping them to understand the taxation of two or more juridical Resident Persons that form a Tax Group.

Once a Tax Group is formed, the juridical Resident Persons that are part of the Tax Group are treated as a single Taxable Person and, therefore, Taxable Income needs to be calculated on a consolidated basis for the entire Tax Group. As a result, only one Tax Return for the Tax Group needs to be submitted to the FTA.

This guide provides readers with an overview of:
* what is a Tax Group;
* who is eligible to form or be a member of a Tax Group;
* when a Tax Group can be formed and when it ceases to exist;
* how the Taxable Income of a Tax Group is determined; and
* related compliance requirements.

Tax Groups are an optional regime, and a Tax Group is only formed if juridical Resident Persons, who meet the relevant conditions, apply to form one and it is approved by the FTA. Therefore, the concept of a Tax Group will not apply to every Taxable Person.

This guide does not cover the concept of a Qualifying Group for the purposes of Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law (under which assets and liabilities may be transferred between members of a Qualifying Group on a no gain or loss basis for Corporate Tax purposes), except insofar as this provision interacts with the rules related to Tax Groups.


2.3. Who should read this guide?

This guide should be read by any juridical Resident Person that thinks it may qualify to form a Tax Group (with a Parent Company and at least one Subsidiary) or join an existing Tax Group as per the Corporate Tax Law, and that wants to enjoy the benefits of the Tax Group regime (for example consolidated Taxable Income, reduced compliance burden, etc.).

It is intended to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant Articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each Section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides (such as Participation Exemption, foreign tax credit).

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how the key Corporate Tax rules for Tax Groups apply. The examples in this guide:
- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:
* Federal Decree-Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as "Tax Procedures Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses, and its amendments, is referred to as the "Corporate Tax Law";
* Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 on Organising Reports Submitted by Multinational Companies is referred to as "Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020";


* Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as the "Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023 on the Participation Exemption for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023 on the Adjustments Under the Transitional Rules for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023 on Tax Group for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023 on the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023 on the General Rules for Determining Taxable Income for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023";
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 5 of 2023 on the Conditions for Change in Tax Period for the Purposes of the Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023";
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 6 of 2023 on Tax Deregistration Timeline for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 6 of 2023"; and
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 12 of 2023 on Conditions for Forming the Tax Group by Subsidiaries of a Government Entity for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 12 of 2023".

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the tax implications for Tax Groups relating to the Corporate Tax regime in the UAE. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a


definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. What is a Tax Group?

The Corporate Tax Law defines a Tax Group as two or more Taxable Persons treated as a single Taxable Person according to the conditions of Article 40 of the Corporate Tax Law.1 Only Resident Persons can be part of a Tax Group.2 A Tax Group for Corporate Tax purposes is distinct from a tax group for value added tax purposes.

If the relevant conditions are met,3 a joint application can be made to the FTA by the Parent Company and each Subsidiary seeking to form or become a member of a Tax Group. 4 A member of a Tax Group may refer to either a Parent Company or a Subsidiary included in the relevant Tax Group.

A Subsidiary can only be a member of a Tax Group if all conditions outlined in Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are met.

There are several benefits of forming a Tax Group, which include the ability for the Parent Company to file a single Tax Return on behalf of all members of the Tax Group.5 Forming a Tax Group also allows for the income and losses of the members of the Tax Group to be offset against each other. Also, generally the transfer of assets and liabilities and other transactions and arrangements between members of the Tax Group are to be disregarded when determining the Taxable Income of the Tax Group.
























1 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
2 Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 3 Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 4 Article 40(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 5 Article 53(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.


4. Conditions to form a Tax Group

A Parent Company and one or more Subsidiaries can make an application to the FTA to form a Tax Group where all of the following conditions are satisfied:
* The Parent Company and each Subsidiary are juridical persons (the "juridical persons condition");6
* The Parent Company and each Subsidiary are Resident Persons (the "Resident Persons condition");7
* The Parent Company owns at least 95% of the share capital of each Subsidiary, either directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries (the "share capital ownership condition");8
* The Parent Company owns at least 95% of the voting rights of each Subsidiary, either directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries (the "voting rights condition");9
* The Parent Company is entitled to at least 95% of each Subsidiary's profits and net assets, either directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries (the "profits and net assets condition");10
* Neither the Parent Company nor the Subsidiaries are an Exempt Person (the "Exempt Person condition");11
* Neither the Parent Company nor the Subsidiaries are a Qualifying Free Zone Person (the "Qualifying Free Zone Person condition");12
* The Parent Company and each Subsidiary must have the same Financial Year (the "Financial Year condition");13 and
* The Parent Company and each Subsidiary must prepare their Financial Statements using the same Accounting Standards (the "Accounting Standards condition").14

The share capital ownership condition, the voting rights condition and the profits and net assets condition can be met if the Parent Company holds such rights directly and/or through one or more Subsidiaries. This means indirect ownership is only considered if it is through one or more intermediate Subsidiaries of the Parent Company.


6 Article 40(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 7 Article 40(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 8 Article 40(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 9 Article 40(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 10 Article 40(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law. 11 Article 40(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law. 12 Article 40(1)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law. 13 Article 40(1)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law. 14 Article 40(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law.



For a Tax Group to be formed, the Parent Company and the Subsidiary must continuously meet all of the above-mentioned conditions throughout the relevant Tax Period during which the Tax Group rules are applied.15 This means that if both or either of the Parent Company and the Subsidiaries meet the conditions only for part of a Tax Period, it is not possible to form a Tax Group in that Tax Period.

For the Tax Group to continue to exist, the Parent Company and all Subsidiaries must meet all the above-mentioned conditions continuously throughout the relevant Tax Period.16 If the Parent Company and all Subsidiaries meet the conditions only for part of a Tax Period, it is not possible for the Tax Group to continue to exist in that Tax Period, except in cases where a Parent Company is replaced by another Parent Company without discontinuation of the Tax Group (see Section 6.4).17 Similarly, if any Subsidiary does not meet the conditions continuously throughout the relevant Tax Period, the subsidiary will no longer be a member of the Tax Group.18

A Tax Group that existed in a Tax Period will continue to exist in the following Tax Period, provided the Parent Company and all the Subsidiaries continue to meet all the conditions throughout that next Tax Period. Where the Parent Company and all the Subsidiaries do not continuously meet all the conditions during a subsequent Tax Period, the Tax Group will cease to exist from the beginning of that subsequent Tax Period,19 except in cases where a Parent Company is replaced by another Parent Company without discontinuation of the Tax Group,20 or where a member of the Tax Group ceases to exist as a result of transfer of a Business within the same Tax Group.21

It may be possible to form a Tax Group again after it ceases to exist or to readmit a Subsidiary that left the Tax Group if the relevant conditions are met in a later Tax Period by submitting an application to the FTA.

There is no limit to the number of members of a Tax Group. However, a juridical person can only be a member of one Tax Group at any given time. Further, if a Parent Company forms a Tax Group with one or more Subsidiaries, these are regarded as a single Tax Group. Thus, it is not possible for a Parent Company to form multiple Tax Groups with different Subsidiaries.


15 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
16 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
17 Article 40(12) of the Corporate Tax Law.
18 Article 40(10)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
19 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
20 Article 40(12) of the Corporate Tax Law.
21 Article 10 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


There is no requirement for any connection or relation between the Business or Business Activities of the members of the Tax Group.

Each of the conditions listed in Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are considered below.

4.1. Juridical persons condition

The Parent Company and each Subsidiary of a Tax Group must be a juridical person,
i.e. have a separate legal personality from its founders, owners and directors. Examples of juridical persons include companies (such as private or public joint stock companies or limited liability companies) and certain incorporated partnerships which have separate legal personality.22

Natural persons, carrying on Business as a sole establishment, are not juridical persons and, therefore, cannot qualify to be a member of a Tax Group.

Unincorporated Partnerships are a contractual relationship between two or more persons that generally do not have distinct legal personality separate from their partners / members. Given that Unincorporated Partnerships are not juridical persons in their own right, they cannot be part of a Tax Group (either as a Parent Company or as a Subsidiary). This applies even if an Unincorporated Partnership is treated as a Taxable Person on the basis of an approved application by its partners under Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law, as this does not change the legal form of an Unincorporated Partnership. A juridical person which is a partner in a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership, can be a member of a Tax Group as said partner is a juridical person.

4.2. Resident Persons condition

4.2.1. Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law and under Double Taxation Agreements

The Parent Company and each Subsidiary of a Tax Group must be a Resident Person.23 Under the Corporate Tax Law, a juridical person is a Resident Person where:






22 Article 40(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
23 Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* It is incorporated or otherwise established or recognised under the applicable legislation of the UAE;24 or
* It is incorporated or otherwise established or recognised under the applicable legislation of a foreign jurisdiction but is effectively managed and controlled in the UAE.25

In addition, juridical persons can be members of a Tax Group only if they are regarded both as a Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law as well as a tax resident of the UAE for the purposes of an applicable Double Taxation Agreement.26 In other words, a juridical person cannot be a member of a Tax Group if they are considered tax resident in a foreign jurisdiction under a Double Taxation Agreement in force in the UAE.

Double Taxation Agreements are bilateral agreements between the UAE and another jurisdiction for the elimination of double taxation with respect to taxes on income and capital and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance. Such agreements aim, inter alia, at resolving double taxation in instances where a person is a dual resident in the UAE and in another jurisdiction. For this purpose, Double Taxation Agreements generally provide rules for determining in which jurisdiction a Person is regarded as tax resident for the purposes of the agreement (see Section 4.2.2.1 in relation to the "tie-breaker rule").

4.2.2. Dual resident persons

If a Resident Person is also liable to an income tax or any other tax that is similar to Corporate Tax in a foreign jurisdiction by virtue of residence, place of management or any other criterion of a similar nature, the Resident Person is considered a dual resident person. Whether a dual resident person can be a member of a Tax Group will depend on the relevant facts and circumstances, as explained below.

4.2.2.1. The Double Taxation Agreement includes a tie-breaker rule

In general, Double Taxation Agreements will outline a clear procedure to determine the sole jurisdiction in which a dual resident person is considered tax resident for the purposes of that agreement (a "tie-breaker rule").

* If the dual resident person is regarded as a tax resident of only the UAE under the tie-breaker rule of an applicable Double Taxation Agreement with another jurisdiction, then that Resident Person is not considered a tax resident of that


24 Article 11(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
25 Article 11(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


foreign jurisdiction. As a result, the dual resident person can be a member of a Tax Group.
* However, if a dual resident person is regarded as a tax resident of a foreign jurisdiction under the tie-breaker rule of an applicable Double Taxation Agreement, then that Resident Person cannot form or be a member of a Tax Group.27
* If a dual resident person qualified as a member of a Tax Group in earlier Tax Periods, but subsequently is treated as a tax resident of a foreign jurisdiction under the tie-breaker rule of an applicable Double Taxation Agreement, then that member ceases to be a member of the Tax Group from the beginning of the Tax Period in which the member became a tax resident of the foreign jurisdiction.28

The reason for this condition is that where a dual resident person is regarded as a tax resident of a foreign jurisdiction under an applicable Double Taxation Agreement, the restrictions under the Double Taxation Agreement would usually mean it is not effectively taxed in a manner similar to other Resident Persons for UAE Corporate Tax purposes as the UAE's taxing rights on that person will generally be limited to specific instances.

4.2.2.2. The Double Taxation Agreement has the mutual agreement procedure as a tie breaker rule

Certain Double Taxation Agreements do not provide a conclusive tie-breaker rule for dual resident persons. Instead, tax residence is determined through mutual agreement of the competent authorities of both countries. In this case, until the competent authorities come to a conclusion, the person is treated as a tax resident of both countries.29

For Tax Group purposes, a Resident Person should not be resident for tax purposes in another jurisdiction under a Double Taxation Agreement.30 This requirement is not met until the mutual agreement procedure is complete. As a result, the Resident Person is not eligible to join or form a Tax Group in such cases, even though the UAE is not restricted from exercising a taxing right on the income of the dual resident person.

After the mutual agreement procedure is concluded and the tax residence is allocated to one specific jurisdiction, a dual resident person can join a Tax Group only if the


27 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
28 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
29 Article 4(3) of OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and on Capital (2017 version) and the UN Model Double Taxation Convention between Developed and Developing Countries (2021 version). 30 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


Resident Person is regarded as being tax resident only in the UAE by the competent authorities under the relevant Double Taxation Agreement.

4.2.2.3. No Double Taxation Agreement between UAE and another foreign jurisdiction

It is possible that a Resident Person is also a tax resident under the domestic tax law of a foreign jurisdiction with which the UAE does not have an in force Double Taxation Agreement. In such cases, the requirement under Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023 does not apply, as this provision only applies if there is an applicable Double Taxation Agreement. Thus, the Resident Person would still be eligible to join a Tax Group.

4.2.3. Documentation to prove tax residence

For Tax Group purposes, the following Resident Persons are required to maintain the requisite documentation to support that they are not tax resident in a foreign jurisdiction in which they are incorporated or effectively managed and controlled:31
* Juridical persons incorporated or otherwise established or recognised under the applicable legislation of a foreign jurisdiction but that are effectively managed and controlled in the UAE; and
* Juridical persons incorporated or otherwise established or recognised under applicable legislation of UAE but that are effectively managed and controlled in a foreign jurisdiction.

The documentation to be maintained includes either of the following:
* A confirmation issued by the relevant tax authority of that foreign jurisdiction to support that they are not tax resident under domestic law of that foreign jurisdiction.32
* A confirmation issued by the relevant competent authorities for the purposes of the application of the relevant Double Taxation Agreement.33

Failure of a dual resident person to maintain documentation can mean that the Resident Person is unable to prove it is not tax resident in a foreign jurisdiction. In those circumstances, the FTA may treat the dual resident as if the conditions for being part of a Tax Group were not met for Tax Periods for which insufficient documentation is available.




31 Article 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
32 Article 3(4)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
33 Article 3(4)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


4.2.4. Parent Company held by a non-resident person

A foreign company, that is not a Resident Person, cannot qualify to be a member of a Tax Group. However, it is possible that a foreign company directly or indirectly holds shares or interests of several juridical Resident Persons including a Parent Company. In such a case, the juridical Resident Persons (Subsidiaries of the foreign company) can form a Tax Group provided that such companies are held by a Parent Company which is a juridical Resident Person and meets all of the conditions under Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law such that it qualifies as the Parent Company of the Tax Group.


4.3. Share capital ownership condition

To form a Tax Group, the Parent Company must own at least 95% of the share capital in each of the Subsidiaries, either directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries.34 The 95% threshold allows companies to form or join a Tax Group when



34 Article 40(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


there is a minority interest holder. This can be the case, for example, if an applicable law requires at least two shareholders for the incorporation of a juridical person.

4.3.1. What is share capital?

Share capital is defined as the nominal issued and paid-up share capital, or Membership or Partnership Capital, as applicable.35

The term "share" refers to a unit of ownership in a company which entitles the holder to a number of rights. These may include the right to vote, the right to participate in distributions of company profits, and the right to a return on the company's capital. The particular rights attached to a share will depend on the constitutional documents of the company. The term includes all types of shares issued by a company which carry a right to participate in the company's profits and liquidation proceeds, such as Ordinary Shares, Preferred Shares, Redeemable Shares etc. The term should be interpreted consistently with the term "shares or capital" and other usage of the term "share capital" in the Corporate Tax Law 36 and implementing decisions. 37 Any related guidance on those terms can also be applied. For instance, an ownership interest shall qualify as "share or capital" if it is classified as an equity interest under the Accounting Standards as applied by the Person holding the ownership interest.38

Share capital consists of share capital that has been issued and paid-up and does not include share capital that has been authorised but not yet issued and/or paid up. Rights of shareholders (such as voting rights and rights to receive profit distributions) are usually determined by reference to the nominal or par value (for example the "unit value") of the shares, in which case the share capital condition requires the Parent Company to own at least 95% of the nominal value of the share capital. Usually, the nominal value is determined separately from any share premium (i.e. amounts contributed on shares in excess of their nominal value).

If the share capital of a company does not have nominal value, the rights of shareholders would usually be determined by reference to a different metric, such as a capital account allocated to a shareholder. In such a case, the share capital condition requires the Parent Company to own at least 95% of such a metric.




35 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
36 For example, the term "shares or capital" is used in Articles 13(2)(e), 23(2), 23(11) of the Corporate Tax Law and the term "share capital" used in Article 31(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
37 Scope of ownership interests is described in Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023, Article
2 of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023 and Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.
38 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023, Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023 and
Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


Share capital also includes capital invested in other forms of juridical persons (other than companies) such as Membership or Partnership Capital (which is the total amount of capital held by such juridical person that can be allocated to specific owners). Capital in an incorporated partnership or units of a trust also qualify as share capital where such entities are treated as juridical persons according to the law under which they are incorporated.

A Parent Company must hold at least 95% of voting rights and entitlement to profits and net assets in the capital of the Subsidiaries i.e. the "voting rights condition" and the "profits and net assets condition" (see Sections 4.4 and 4.5).39

4.3.2. Ownership of share capital

The share capital ownership condition under Article 40(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law refers to the legal owner of the shares, that is the Person who holds the legal title to the shares or interest. Where the shares do not have a legal title, this will be the Person who is otherwise recognised as the owner of the share capital from a legal perspective.

Where the Parent Company legally owns directly or indirectly at least 95% of the share capital of the Subsidiary, the share capital ownership condition should be met. However, whether this is the case should be determined based on the particular facts and circumstances on a case-by-case basis and after considering the specific legal arrangements that are in place.

The share capital ownership is not met if a Person transfers the legal title in shares or ownership interest to another Person while retaining the voting rights and entitlement to other benefits from such shares or interest.

Further, even if the share capital ownership condition is met, it should be assessed separately whether the voting rights condition and the profits and asset condition are also met (see Sections 4.4 and 4.5).















39 Article 40(1)(c) and 40(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 2: Legal ownership of shares

Agreement to transfer economic ownership of Company B shares held by Company C


80%	20%





Company A owns 80% of the shares in Company B. Company C holds the remaining 20% of the shares in Company B. Company A, Company B and Company C are incorporated and tax resident in the UAE.

Company C and Company A enter into an agreement for the transfer of economic ownership under which Company C will continue to legally own 20% of the shares in Company B but will do so on behalf of Company A.

Company C will transfer all rights relating to the 20% to Company A and grant Company A the right to request the transfer of legal title to the 20% at any time. In return for the transfer of economic ownership, Company A pays a consideration equal to the Market Value of the 20% of shares held in Company B to Company C.

After the transfer, Company A owns 80% of the shares in Company B outright and 20% as an economic owner. However, the share capital ownership condition is determined based on legal ownership of the shares and not based on effective ownership. As Company A legally only owns 80% of the shares in Company B, the share capital ownership condition is not met. Therefore, Company A and Company B cannot form a Tax Group.

4.3.3. Determining the 95% share capital ownership threshold

Whether the condition to hold at least 95% of share capital is met should be assessed by reference to the nominal issued or paid-up share capital.40 As explained in Section 4.3.1, the nominal issued or paid-up share capital represents the metric used by the juridical person to determine the proportionate rights of shareholders.



40 Article 2(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


This is computed as: X  100% where,
Y

* X is the portion of nominal issued and paid-up share capital of the Subsidiary that is owned by the Parent Company directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries.
* Y is the total nominal issued and paid-up share capital of the Subsidiary.

It is possible that the Subsidiary issues shares with different nominal values through the use of different share classes. In such a case, testing the 95% ownership condition only on the basis of the number of shares held can lead to an inaccurate representation. Instead, the number of shares should be weighted by the nominal value of each share when computing X and Y to provide an accurate representation of the shareholding.

Example 3: Shares with different nominal values

Company A (incorporated in and tax resident of the UAE) has issued 2 classes of shares to its shareholders:

Class of share
Number of shares issued
Nominal value per share (AED)
Total capital (AED)
Class 1
100
10
1,000
Class 2
1
1,000
1,000
Total
101
-
2,000

Company B holds 100% of Class 1 shares of Company A.

Applying the formula above to Class 1 shares leads to the following result: 1,000  2,000  100% = 50%.

As the number of shares held in Company A is weighted by reference to their nominal value, the share capital ownership condition is not met by Company B even though Company B holds 100% of the Class 1 shares and 99% of the total number of shares.

As rights relating to the shares (such as voting rights and profit rights) are usually determined by reference to the nominal value, this provides a more realistic picture of the ownership stake in Company A.

It is also possible that the share capital of a Subsidiary consists of different types of shares, for example Ordinary Shares, Preferred Shares, etc. All types of shares held


by the Parent Company in the Subsidiary directly or indirectly should be considered when computing X and Y.

Any instruments issued that are not share capital (such as convertible loans, warrants, options over shares that have not been issued) should not be considered in determining whether the share capital ownership condition has been met.

Certain juridical persons do not have capital divided into shares with a nominal value, but instead determine the entitlement of their owners by reference to Membership or Partnership Capital. In such cases, the share capital condition should be tested by reference to such Membership or Partnership Capital. This means capital paid to a partnership or trust (that is a juridical person) by a Parent Company (directly or indirectly) or capital held in a capital account for the benefit of the Parent Company should be considered as X and the total capital account of the partnership or trust should be considered as Y.

4.3.4. Indirect ownership

The Parent Company must own at least 95% of the share capital in the Subsidiaries, either directly or indirectly through one or more intermediate Subsidiaries of the Parent Company. The condition is also met if the combination of direct and indirect ownership adds up to at least 95%.41



41 Article 40(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.




If a Parent Company indirectly owns the share capital of a juridical Resident Person through non-wholly owned Subsidiaries, the holding of the Parent Company in that juridical Resident Person should be counted proportionately i.e. in proportion to the Parent Company's holding in the intermediate non-wholly owned Subsidiary.





To determine the share capital ownership threshold, a direct ownership held by the Parent Company can be combined with any indirect shareholding or equivalent ownership interest held by a Subsidiary. The share capital ownership condition is met if total ownership (i.e. direct and indirect ownership) is 95% or more.

Example 6: Direct and indirect shareholding in a Subsidiary
Tax Group







Company A, Company B and Company C are all juridical Resident Persons. Company A wishes to form a Tax Group with Company B and Company C.

Company A holds 95% shares in Company B. Assuming all other conditions of Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are met, Company B qualifies as a Subsidiary. Company A can form a Tax Group with Company B.

Company A holds a 50% direct stake in Company C. The remaining 50% is held by Company B. Accordingly, Company A holds 47.5% (i.e. 95% of 50%) of the share capital of Company C indirectly through Company B (which is considered a Subsidiary of Company A). As a result, the total of Company A's direct (50%) and indirect (47.5%) ownership of the share capital of Company C is 97.5%. This means Company A meets the share capital ownership condition in respect of Company C. Assuming all other conditions of Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are met,




4.3.5. Transfer of shares between members of a Tax Group

The transfer of shares of a Subsidiary held by one member of a Tax Group to another member of the same Tax Group will not impact the share capital ownership condition provided the Parent Company continues to hold at least 95% share capital of that Subsidiary directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries.





4.3.6. Transfer of shares outside the Tax Group

Transactions for the sale of shares between independent parties can be subject to a long negotiation process, usually resulting in the parties entering into a share purchase agreement ("signing") and a transfer of the shares ("closing"). Signing and closing can occur on the same date or there can be a time gap between signing and closing.

In the case of a time gap, questions can arise on whether the buyer or seller of the shares can continuously meet the share capital ownership condition between signing and closing of a share purchase agreement. As discussed in Section 4.3.2, the owner for the purposes of the share capital ownership condition is the legal owner of the share capital. Whether the legal ownership is transferred from buyer to seller depends on the specifics of the share purchase agreement. As a principle, until such time as the legal title in the shares is transferred to the buyer, the seller should be considered as the legal owner of the shares. As a result, it is possible for the seller to meet the share capital ownership condition after signing. Once the legal title of shares is transferred to the buyer, the buyer will be the legal owner of the shares. After that date, it is possible for the buyer to meet the share capital ownership condition.

If a sale of all the shares in a Subsidiary happens within a Tax Period, neither the seller nor the purchaser of the shares can meet the share capital ownership condition for the entire Tax Period, except in a scenario where a new Parent Company can make an application to replace the existing Parent Company without a discontinuation of the Tax Group.42

Therefore, the Subsidiary is considered to leave the Tax Group as of the start of the Tax Period in which the share capital ownership condition was no longer met.43 In addition, the purchaser would not be able to form a Tax Group for that Tax Period, as it has not met the share capital ownership condition continuously for the entire Tax Period.

If the other conditions are met, the purchaser may form a Tax Group with the Subsidiary from the next Tax Period.


42 Article 40(12) of the Corporate Tax Law.
43 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


4.4. Voting rights condition

4.4.1. General

The voting rights condition requires the Parent Company to hold at least 95% of the voting rights in the Subsidiary, either directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries.44 The condition is also met if the combination of direct and indirect entitlement to voting rights adds up to at least 95%. An indirect entitlement to voting rights is only considered if held through one or more intermediate Subsidiaries of the Parent Company.

Although the voting rights condition will often be met if the share capital ownership condition is met, voting rights need to be assessed independently and can produce different results if there are restrictions on voting rights or if voting rights do not fully align with nominal share capital ownership.

To determine this, voting rights on matters that require shareholder approval are relevant. Voting rights on matters that only require board approval are not relevant.
What qualifies as a matter requiring shareholder approval would usually depend on the constitutive documents of the entity and any shareholders' agreement that sets out the rights, responsibilities, and obligations of the shareholders of the entity. Usually, matters such as appointment of directors, Dividends and the decision to wind up a juridical person require shareholder approval.

The voting rights condition is determined by whether the Parent Company and/or a relevant intermediary Subsidiary legally holds voting rights on shareholder matters.

A contractual agreement to vote in a certain way would not generally limit the legal right of a shareholder to vote. Similarly, appointing another person to vote on behalf of the shareholder through a proxy arrangement does not generally result in the shareholder losing its right to vote, as the proxyholder exercises the voting right on behalf of the shareholder. It is irrelevant for the voting rights condition whether the Parent Company and/or a relevant intermediary Subsidiary has exercised or regularly exercises its voting rights attached to the shares of the Subsidiary it owns.

Generally, voting rights are tied to the nominal value of share capital. Therefore, the voting rights condition will usually be met if the share capital ownership condition is met. However, some shares may not carry voting rights (non-voting shares) or carry extraordinary voting rights (see Section 4.4.2).




44 Article 40(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Where a Subsidiary has issued shares with voting rights as well as shares without voting rights, the latter should be excluded when determining whether the voting right condition has been met. This means that it is possible that the share capital ownership condition is met but the voting rights condition is not met.

Alternatively, where the Parent Company or a relevant intermediary Subsidiary transfers legal title to the shares in or interest to another Person while retaining the voting rights and entitlement to other benefits from such shares or interest, those voting rights would still count for the purposes of the voting right condition (even though the shares would not be counted for the share capital ownership condition (see Section 4.3.2).

4.4.2. Extraordinary voting rights

Sometimes a juridical person issues shares which carry extraordinary voting rights to significant shareholders such as founders as compared to other shareholders. For instance, holders of these shares can have the right to appoint one board member or the right to veto certain important business decisions such as mergers, significant acquisitions and disposals or liquidation of the company.

If such shares are held by a minority shareholder holding a small stake of 5% or less, such shares do not automatically prevent the formation of a Tax Group. For instance, the right of a minority shareholder to appoint a board member does not jeopardise the voting rights condition, provided that the Parent Company and/or a relevant intermediary Subsidiary still has the ability to appoint a majority of the board members.

In addition, veto rights attached to certain shares do not prevent meeting the voting rights condition, provided that the Parent Company and/or a relevant intermediary Subsidiary continues to hold 95% of the voting rights on shareholder decisions. In other words, different classes of shares with different voting rights should generally not affect the voting right condition if the Parent Company can demonstrate that it directly or indirectly holds 95% or more of the total/overall statutory voting rights of the Subsidiary.

However, the above would need to be considered on a case-by-case basis depending on all the facts and circumstances.

4.4.3. Indirect holding of voting rights

The same principle as discussed above in relation to share capital ownership applies to determine the percentage of voting rights held directly or indirectly. In this regard, see Section 4.3.3 for situations where the Parent Company holds voting rights


indirectly through Subsidiaries and how to determine the percentage of voting rights held by the Parent Company.

4.5. Profits and net assets condition

A Tax Group requires the Parent Company to have, either directly or indirectly, an entitlement to at least:45
* 95% of the Subsidiary's profits (herein referred to as the "profits condition"); and
* 95% of the Subsidiary's net assets (herein referred to as the "net assets condition").

This means the condition is only met if both conditions are satisfied. Both conditions need to be assessed on the basis of the effective entitlement. Although the profits and net assets condition will often be met if the share capital ownership condition is met, the profits and net assets rights need to be assessed independently and can produce different results if contractual arrangements limit the rights to profits and net assets, or if the rights to profits and net assets do not fully align with nominal share capital ownership.

4.5.1. Profits condition

The profits condition requires that the Parent Company is, directly or indirectly, entitled to receive at least 95% of profits from the Subsidiary. This consists of distributable profits and profits that are not distributable. Distributable profits of a juridical person are determined by the corporate law and applicable legislation of the UAE or a foreign jurisdiction which governs the formation or existence of the Subsidiary.

Often distributable profits will be the accumulated realised net profits based on the applicable Accounting Standards. If certain profits are not available for distribution, such as those allocated to a (non-distributable) legal reserve, the shareholders can generally be considered to hold a right to such profits and the profits condition can be met if the Parent Company (whether directly, or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries) holds at least 95% of the rights to such profits if they were to be distributed.

Any portion of share capital that is not held by the Parent Company or a relevant intermediary Subsidiary should be taken into account when assessing who would have the right to receive profit distributions.

Profit allocation can be determined by various factors, such as shareholder agreements, company bylaws, or specific arrangements made among the


shareholders. Moreover, different classes of shares with different economic entitlement (e.g. Preferred Shares) may impact the actual entitlement of the Parent Company and/or a relevant intermediary Subsidiary. These factors can allow for different profit-sharing ratios from the shareholding/ownership percentages. Irrespective of the percentage of the legal ownership interest held by the Parent Company (whether directly, or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries), the profits condition requires that the Parent Company is directly or indirectly entitled to at least 95% of the profits of the Subsidiary.

If a juridical person contractually agrees to share a portion of operational results with a third party, this would not necessarily reduce a shareholder's right to the profits, provided that the contractual entitlement is not an equity relationship. However, this would need to be determined based on the facts and circumstances in each case.

4.5.2. Entitlement to at least 95% of the Subsidiary's net assets

The net assets condition is tested as the direct or indirect entitlement to at least 95% of the net assets of the Subsidiary upon winding-up of the Subsidiary.46 The net assets are defined by the value of the Subsidiary's total assets minus its total liabilities. In other words, the net assets of the Subsidiary upon liquidation after all creditors have been settled. The total amount of net assets equals the equity of the shareholders in the Subsidiary.

4.5.3. Impact of different share classes

If a company has several share classes with different economic entitlements, situations can occur where meeting the profits and net assets condition is not immediately obvious. This is illustrated in the example below.








Class of share
  Number of shares issued
Nominal value per share (AED)
Total capital (AED)
Ordinary Shares
100
10
1,000
Preferred Shares
1
50
50
Total
101

1,050


All the Ordinary Shares are held by Company A and all Preferred Shares are held by Company B. Since Company B holds Preferred Shares, it enjoys priority in terms of entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds ahead of owners of Ordinary Shares. Company C uses the Gregorian calendar year as its Financial Year.

In 2024, Company C reports profits of AED 3 million, which - if distributed - would be distributed AED 2.86 million (3 million*1000/1050) to Company A and AED 0.14 million (3 million*50/1050) to Company B. Company C distributes the full profits for 2024 on 1 March 2025.

In 2025, Company C makes AED 0.1 million profits which - if distributed - would be distributed fully to Company B since it holds Preferred Shares and hence enjoy priority over Company A during distribution of profit. No distribution is made during 2025.

In 2024, Company A meets the share capital ownership condition and profits condition. Company A would also meet the net assets condition, provided it would be entitled to at least 95% of the proceeds if Company C were to be liquidated.

Assuming all of the other conditions are also met, Company A can form a Tax Group with Company C as of 1 January 2024. The theoretical possibility that the 95% profits condition may not be met at a future point in time does not prevent the formation of a Tax Group for 2024.

However, in 2025, the profits condition is not met. Therefore, if a Tax Group was formed in 2024, it would cease to exist in 2025, effective from the beginning of the Tax Period in which the profits condition was not met,47 i.e. from 1 January 2025.

The Tax Group shall notify the FTA within 20 business days of the date from which the conditions are no longer met.48 As the entitlement of shareholders to profits can only be assessed at the end of the Financial Year, the Tax Group is required to notify the FTA within 20 business days of the end of the 2025 Financial Year.

4.5.4. Transfer of shares outside the Tax Group

In circumstances where a shareholder has entered into an agreement to sell its shares, it depends on the specifics of the share purchase agreement whether the economic entitlement is transferred from seller to buyer and from which date such a transfer is effective. As a general principle, the buyer will be considered entitled to the profits and net assets relating to the shares once the share purchase agreement has

47 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
48 Article 12 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


become unconditional. As of that moment, the buyer can meet the profits and net assets condition (assuming the shares transferred represent at least 95% entitlement to profits and net assets). That also means the seller no longer meets the profits and net assets condition as of that moment.

However, depending on the relevant facts and circumstances, if there are material conditions to be met that are not within the control of the buyer (for example, a regulatory approval or other approval by third parties), the buyer may not be effectively entitled to the profits and net assets relating to the shares transferred until such time that the material conditions are met. In each case, this will depend on the particular facts and circumstances.

4.5.5. Indirect holding of rights to profits or net assets

The same principles as discussed above in relation to share capital ownership and voting rights apply to determine the percentage of rights to profits and net assets held directly or indirectly. In this regard, see Section Error! Reference source not found. for situations where the Parent Company holds rights to profits or net assets indirectly through Subsidiaries and how to determine the percentage of rights to profits or net assets held directly or indirectly by the Parent Company.

4.6. Exempt Person condition and Qualifying Free Zone Person condition

4.6.1. General

A Tax Group is intended to allow for the grouping of entities which are subject to Corporate Tax in the same manner. In line with this principle, an Exempt Person or a Qualifying Free Zone Person cannot form or join a Tax Group.49

By contrast, a juridical Resident Person that is a Free Zone Person but not a Qualifying Free Zone Person can be a member of a Tax Group, whether as a Parent Company or as a Subsidiary, if the other conditions for forming or joining a Tax Group are met. The mere fact that a juridical person is incorporated or established in a Free Zone is not, in itself, a barrier to being a member of a Tax Group.

A branch of a Non-Resident Person could also fall within the definition of a Free Zone Person, if it is registered in a Free Zone.50 However, a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone cannot be a member of a Tax Group since it would not meet the juridical person condition, as the branch does not have a separate legal


49 Article 40(1)(e) and 40(1)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law.
50 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.


personality from its head office. The Non-Resident Person of which the branch is a part would also not meet the Resident Person condition.51

Where a member of a Tax Group becomes an Exempt Person during the relevant Tax Period, or is a Qualifying Free Zone Person for a Tax Period and does not elect to be subject to tax under Article 19 of the Corporate Tax Law, the Exempt Person condition or Qualifying Free Zone Person condition will no longer be met. As a result, the relevant member of the Tax Group shall be treated as leaving the Tax Group from the beginning of the Tax Period in which the event took place.52

In case the Parent Company becomes an Exempt Person, the Tax Group ceases to exist from the beginning of the Tax Period in which it becomes an Exempt Person,53 and all members of the Tax Group will be subject to Corporate Tax on a standalone basis (also see Section 7), unless the Parent Company is replaced by another Parent Company that meets the conditions to form a Tax Group (see Section 6.4).54

4.6.2. Exception for Government Entities

There are scenarios where a Government Entity, is the shareholder of juridical Resident Persons. Because Government Entities are Exempt Persons, they cannot form or join a Tax Group as per the Exempt Person condition under the Tax Group regime.

However, taxable Subsidiaries of a Government Entity can form or join a Tax Group without the Government Entity, subject to meeting certain conditions.55

4.6.3. Small Business Relief

A Resident Person with Revenue below or equal to AED 3 million in a relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods can elect for Small Business Relief.56 As a Tax Group will be treated as a single Taxable Person, Small Business Relief applies to the Tax Group rather than to the individual members of the Tax Group. This means the Revenue threshold for Small Business Relief applies to the consolidated Revenue of the Tax Group, and not to each member individually.



51 Article 11(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
52 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 53 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 54 Article 40(12) of the Corporate Tax Law.
55 Article 40(2) of the Corporate Tax Law read with FTA Decision No. 12 of 2023.
56 Article 21(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.


If a juridical Resident Person that is eligible for Small Business Relief during the relevant Tax Period joins a Tax Group, it will no longer be eligible for Small Business Relief on a standalone basis as the Tax Group is treated as a single Taxable Person. The Small Business Relief would be applicable at the level of that single Taxable Person (i.e. the Tax Group) if the relevant conditions are met. Therefore, the Tax Group can only benefit from the Small Business Relief if on a consolidated basis:
* the Tax Group has a Revenue below or equal to AED 3 million in a relevant Tax Period and all previous Tax Periods;57 and
* none of the members of the Tax Group is a Constituent Company of a Multinational Enterprises Group that is required to prepare a Country-by-Country Report under the UAE's Country-by-Country Reporting legislation.58


4.7. Financial Year condition

4.7.1. General

A key aim of the Tax Groups regime is to reduce the number and overall burden of tax filings. For example, Taxable Persons might have different Financial Years which would require the apportionment of results and thus add  a layer of complexity.




57 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
58 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 and Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020.


Therefore, a Tax Group requires all members to have the same Financial Year59 and have the same Tax Period.60

In the UAE Corporate Tax Law, the Financial Year is defined as either the Gregorian calendar year (beginning on 1 January and ending on 31 December) or a 12-month period for which Financial Statements according to the applicable Accounting Standards are prepared.61

If the Parent Company of a Tax Group wants to change its Financial Year, all members of the Tax Group would need to change their Financial Year simultaneously as well for the Tax Group to continue existing. If some but not all of the Tax Group members change their Financial Year, the Financial Year condition will no longer be met in relation to those members that have a different Financial Year from the Parent Company. Accordingly, the members will leave the Tax Group.

4.7.2. Newly established juridical person joining a Tax Group

A newly established juridical person can join an existing Tax Group from the date of incorporation if the conditions of Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are met from the date of incorporation onwards.62 The Financial Year condition can be met provided the end date of the Financial Year of the newly established juridical person joining the Tax Group is aligned with that of the existing members of the Tax Group. This means that if the other conditions are met, a newly established juridical person can join a Tax Group from the date of its incorporation, and it does not have to wait until the start of the Tax Group's next Tax Period. However, if the Financial Year of the newly incorporated juridical person differs from the Financial Year of the Tax Group upon incorporation, it cannot join the Tax Group as of the date of incorporation. It will need to first change its Financial Year to align with the existing Tax Group members.

4.7.3. Change of Tax Period in order to form or join a Tax Group

If a juridical Resident Person meets all the conditions for forming or joining a Tax Group except for the Financial Year condition, that person can make an application to the FTA to change the start and end date of its Tax Period, or use a different Tax Period63 and align their Financial Year (i.e. the start and end date of a financial reporting period) so that a Tax Group can then be formed or that person can join an existing Tax Group.

59 Article 40(1)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law.
60 Article 57(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
61 Article 57(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
62 Article 5(5) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
63 Article 58 of the Corporate Tax Law.



The FTA shall allow that Person to change its Tax Period to align Financial Years for the purpose of forming a Tax Group or joining an existing Tax Group64 provided the Tax Period is not extended to more than 18 months or reduced to less than 6 months.65 However, Taxable Persons cannot change their Tax Period end date to a date that none of the intended Tax Group members apply, if forming a Tax Group is the sole purpose for the change in Tax Period. For instance, if the conditions for forming a Tax Group are first met on 1 March of a given year, and the entities have a Financial Year ending on 31 December each year, it will ordinarily not be possible to form a Tax Group until 1 January of the following year as the conditions were not met continuously throughout the relevant Tax Period. Unless there are valid commercial, economic or legal reasons to change the Tax Period, the companies involved cannot change their Financial Year to start a new Tax Period as per an earlier date.


4.8. Accounting Standards condition

Under this condition, all members of the Tax Group must prepare their Financial Statements using the same Accounting Standards.66 For the purposes of the UAE Corporate Tax Law, a Taxable Person is required to prepare Financial Statements



64 Article 2(1)(b) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023.
65 Article 2(3) of FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023.
66 Article 40(1)(h) of the Corporate Tax Law.


based on IFRS. Where the Revenue of the Taxable Person does not exceed AED 50 million, they may choose to apply IFRS for SMEs instead.67

Tax Groups are required to prepare consolidated Financial Statements using the above Accounting Standards for the purpose of determining the Taxable Income of a Tax Group.68 For this purpose, the standalone Financial Statements of the Parent Company and each Subsidiary that is a member of the Tax Group must be consolidated by way of aggregation, generally eliminating any transactions between the members of the Tax Group.69 If the consolidated Revenue of the Tax Group exceeds AED 50 million during the relevant Tax Period, such Financial Statements of the Tax Group are required to be audited.70 However, the Corporate Tax Law does not require the separate Financial Statements of the Parent Company and Subsidiary members to be audited, even when a member's Revenue exceeds AED 50 million.

All members of the Tax Group must use the same Accounting Standards for the relevant Tax Period in which the Tax Group is formed. This condition would not be met if one juridical Resident Person uses IFRS and another juridical Resident Person uses IFRS for SMEs. If one juridical Resident Person preparing its Financial Statements based on IFRS for SMEs wants to join a Tax Group whose members are preparing Financial Statement based on IFRS, that juridical person would need to prepare its Financial Statement based on IFRS in order to be able to join the Tax Group.

The Accounting Standards condition does not explicitly require all the members to follow the same accounting policy in the standalone Financial Statements. However, for the purposes of preparing the Financial Statements of the Tax Group, a single accounting policy consistent with the applicable Accounting Standard will need to be applied by all members of the Tax Group.

Although a Tax Group may have consolidated Financial Statements that are already available for financial reporting purposes, the consolidated Financial Statements used for the purposes of determining the Taxable Income of the Tax Group for Corporate Tax purposes should cover, and be accompanied by, a statement that aggregates the standalone Financial Statements of all entities included in the Tax Group and no other entities.







67 Article 4(1) and 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
68 Article 42(1) and 42(11) of the Corporate Tax Law.
69 Article 42(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 3 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
70 Article 54(2) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023.


5. Forming a Tax Group and tax compliance obligations

5.1. Application to FTA to form a Tax Group

Once the relevant conditions are met, the Parent Company can form a Tax Group with its Subsidiaries. In such a case, the Parent Company and each Subsidiary seeking to become members of the Tax Group shall jointly make an application to the FTA.71 This application should also specify the first intended Tax Period of the Tax Group. A request should be filed before the end of the Tax Period for which the formation of the Tax Group is requested. 72 In principle, the Tax Group will be formed from the beginning of the Tax Period specified in the application, but the FTA has the right to determine the Tax Period from which a Tax Group may be formed, even if this differs from the date requested in the application.73

The FTA may review the application to determine whether the conditions for forming a Tax Group are met. However, an approval by the FTA does not confirm that the conditions are or will continue to be met. In other words, if the Parent Company or all Subsidiaries fail to continuously meet the conditions in the first Tax Period for which they are part of the newly formed Tax Group, then it will be treated as if no Tax Group had been formed from the beginning of that Tax Period, even if the FTA has approved the application. In addition, the FTA can reassess compliance with the conditions at any time.

Each member of a Tax Group must be a Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law as well as a tax resident of the UAE for the purposes of an applicable Double Taxation Agreement (see Section 4.2.1).74 In line with this, members of a Tax Group would be eligible individually to apply for a UAE tax residency certificate for the purposes of such Double Taxation Agreements.

5.2. Responsibilities of the Parent Company of a Tax Group

Once a Tax Group is formed, the Parent Company will be required to meet the ongoing Corporate Tax compliance obligations on behalf of the Tax Group and represent the Tax Group. This includes:





71 Article 40(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
72 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
73 Article 41(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
74 Article 3(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


* In case a new Subsidiary wishes to join an existing Tax Group, the Parent Company and the respective Subsidiary should jointly apply to the FTA.75
* The Parent Company shall prepare consolidated Financial Statements for the Tax Group in accordance with the applicable Accounting Standards (i.e. IFRS or IFRS for SMEs).76
* The Parent Company files a Tax Return on behalf of the Tax Group no later than 9 months from the end of the relevant Tax Period, or by such other date as directed by the FTA.77
* The Parent Company will settle the Corporate Tax Payable on behalf of the Tax Group within 9 months from the end of the relevant Tax Period, or by such other date as determined by the FTA.78
* The Parent Company may apply for a Corporate Tax refund on behalf of the Tax Group, if the relevant conditions are met.79
* The Parent Company will register and deregister the Tax Group.80
* The Parent Company is responsible for maintaining sufficient and adequate supporting documents related to the financial records, transfer pricing documentation, and submitting any clarification request to the FTA.81

5.3. Liability for Corporate Tax Payable

A Tax Group is treated as a single Taxable Person for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law.82 As indicated above, the Tax Group, represented by the Parent Company, is liable to settle the Corporate Tax due within 9 months from the end of the relevant Tax Period, or by such other date as directed by the FTA.83

In a case where the Parent Company fails to settle the Corporate Tax Payable by the due date, Administrative Penalties can apply to the Tax Group. All members of the Tax Group shall be jointly and severally liable for any Corporate Tax and Administrative Penalties due for the Tax Group for the Tax Periods when they are members of the Tax Group,84 although a Tax Group can submit a request to the FTA to limit the joint and several liability to one or more members of the Tax Group.85


75 Article 40(9) of the Corporate Tax Law.
76 Article 42(11) of the Corporate Tax Law.
77 Article 53(1) and 53(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.
78 Article 48 of the Corporate Tax Law.
79 Article 49 of the Corporate Tax Law.
80 Articles 51 and 52 of the Corporate Tax Law.
81 Article 40(5) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Articles 54, 55, 56 of the Corporate Tax Law.
82 Article 40(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
83 Article 48 of the Corporate Tax Law.
84 Article 40(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.
85 Article 40(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.4. Tax Registration of the Tax Group and members of the Tax Group

The Parent Company and each Subsidiary that wants to apply to form a Tax Group should have a Tax Registration Number for Corporate Tax purposes. Once the application for forming a Tax Group is approved by the FTA, that Tax Group will be issued a separate Tax Registration Number and this Tax Registration Number will be used for the Tax Group for Corporate Tax purposes.

5.5. Tax Deregistration of the Tax Group and members of the Tax Group

Forming or joining a Tax Group will not cause or require the members of the Tax Group to be deregistered, even though the members of the Tax Group will no longer be required to file a Tax Return as a standalone Taxable Person.

A Taxable Person is required to file a Tax Deregistration application in case of a cessation of its Business or Business Activity. 86 In the case of a Tax Group, the question of whether the Business or Business Activity has ceased should be assessed at the level of the Tax Group as a whole. In other words, where the Business or Business Activity of a member of a Tax Group has ceased, there is no requirement to deregister the whole Tax Group, unless the Business or Business Activity of the Tax Group as a whole ceases to exist.

If the Business or Business Activities of all members of the Tax Group have ceased, the Parent Company should first make an application to the FTA under Article 40(11)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law requesting the cessation of the Tax Group. In the application for the cessation of the Tax Group, it should be declared whether the Parent Company has paid all the Corporate Tax and Administrative Penalties due and filed all Tax Returns due of the Tax Group.

If the application is approved, the Tax Group shall cease and the FTA shall deregister the Tax Group for Corporate Tax purposes with effect from the date of cessation or from such other date as may be determined by the FTA.

Thereafter, each member of the Tax Group will need to apply for Tax Deregistration.

Additionally, the requirement for Tax Deregistration in the following cases is discussed as indicated:
* Tax Group ceases to exist (see Section 7.2);
* Replacement of Parent Company of the Tax Group (see Section 6.4); and
* Subsidiary of a Tax Group ceases to exist (see Section 6.3.2).



86 Article 52(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


6. Change in members of a Tax Group

6.1. General

In broad terms, the following changes can take place in relation to a Tax Group:
* forming a Tax Group;
* joining a Tax Group;
* leaving a Tax Group;
* replacing a Parent Company; and
* ceasing to be a Tax Group.

Each of these events is discussed in this guide. However, for ease of reference, the timing of each of these events as provided for in the Corporate Tax Law, is summarised in the table below.

Description
Timelines
When must an application be made:
* to form a Tax Group (see Section 5.1);
* to join an existing Tax Group (see Section 6.2.1); or
* to replace the Parent Company of an existing Tax Group (see Section
6.4)?
The application must be submitted to the FTA before the end of the Tax Period within which the formation or joining of a Tax Group is requested.87
From which date is a Tax Group formed? (see Section 5.1)
From the beginning of the Tax Period specified in the application submitted to the FTA, or from the beginning of any other Tax Period determined by the
FTA.88
From which date does a Subsidiary join a Tax Group? (see Section 6.2.1)
From the beginning of the Tax Period specified in the application submitted to the FTA, or from the beginning of any other Tax Period determined by the
FTA.89
From which date does a newly established entity join a Tax Group? This may be:
* a Subsidiary; or
From the date of its incorporation.90

87 Article 5(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
88 Article 41(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
89 Article 41(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
90 Article 5(5) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


Description
Timelines
* a Parent Company replacing the existing Parent Company
(see Section 6.2.2)

From which date does a Subsidiary leave a Tax Group in circumstances where an application was made to the FTA for the Subsidiary to leave the Tax Group? (see
Section 6.3.1)
From the beginning of the Tax Period specified in the application submitted to the FTA, or from the beginning of any other Tax Period determined by the
FTA.91
From which date does a Subsidiary leave a Tax Group in circumstances where it ceased to comply with the conditions for forming part of a Tax Group? (see
Section 6.3.1)
From the beginning of the Tax Period in which the conditions under Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are no longer met.92
From which date do the relevant members leave a Tax Group where the Tax Group ceases to exist in circumstances where an application has been made to the FTA to cease the Tax
Group? (see Section 7.1)
From the beginning of the Tax Period specified in the application submitted to the FTA, or from the beginning of any other Tax Period determined by the FTA.93
From which date do the members of a Tax Group leave the Tax Group in circumstances where the Parent Company ceases to comply with the requirements to form part of a Tax
Group? (see Section 7.1)
From the beginning of the Tax Period in which the conditions under Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are no longer met.94
From which date does a member of a Tax Group leave a Tax Group where such member becomes a resident for tax purposes in another country or foreign territory in accordance with a Double Tax
Agreement? (see Section 4.2.2.1)
The relevant member must be treated as leaving the Tax Group from the beginning of the Tax Period in which it became a resident for tax purposes in the other country or foreign territory.95
From which date does a Subsidiary leave a Tax Group if the Subsidiary transfers its entire business to another member of
the Tax Group and ceases to exist as a
From the date it ceases to exist, on the basis that such Subsidiary must be deemed to remain a member of the Tax
Group until the date it ceases to exist.96

91 Article 41(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 92 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 93 Article 41(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 94 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
95 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
96 Article 10(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


Description
Timelines
result of such transfer? (see Section
6.3.2)

From which date does a Tax Group comprising two members cease to exist in circumstances where one member transfers the entire business to another member and then ceases to exist? (see
Section 7.1).
The Tax Group ceases to exist from the date that the transfer becomes effective.97
Where a new Parent Company replaces an existing Parent Company without the discontinuation of the Tax Group. (see
Section 6.4)
The new Parent Company should meet the conditions specified in Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law from the
beginning of the relevant Tax Period.98
Where a member of the Tax Group replaces an existing Parent Company without a discontinuation of the Tax Group, by way of the old Parent Company transferring its entire business to a member of the old Tax Group and ceasing to exist as a result of this transfer
(see Section 6.4).
The old Parent Company shall be replaced by that other member as of the date the transfer is effective.99

6.2. Joining a Tax Group

6.2.1. Subsidiary joins a Tax Group

A Subsidiary can join an existing Tax Group following submission of an application to the FTA by the Parent Company and the relevant Subsidiary if the conditions of Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are met.100 The application should specify the Tax Period for which the Subsidiary is intended to join the Tax Group. The application must be submitted to the FTA before the end of the Tax Period within which the joining of a Tax Group is requested.101 Upon approval by the FTA, the relevant Subsidiary shall join the Tax Group from the beginning of the Tax Period specified in the application or such other Tax Period determined by the FTA.102




97 Article 10(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
98 Article 5(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
99 Article 5(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
100 Article 40(1) and 40(9) of the Corporate Tax Law.
101 Article 5(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
102 Article 41(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


6.2.2. Newly incorporated entity joins a Tax Group

A newly established juridical person may join an existing Tax Group from the date of incorporation only where it is:
* a newly established Subsidiary;103 or
* a newly established Parent Company replacing the existing Parent Company of the Tax Group.104


6.3. Leaving a Tax Group

6.3.1. General

A Subsidiary shall leave the Tax Group in the following circumstances:
* Following approval by the FTA of an application made by the Parent Company and the relevant Subsidiary.105 In such a case, the Subsidiary leaves the Tax Group from the beginning of the Tax Period specified in the application or such other Tax Period determined by the FTA.106
* Where the relevant Subsidiary no longer meets the conditions to be a member of the Tax Group, the Subsidiary leaves the Tax Group from the beginning of the Tax Period in which the conditions are no longer met.107 Further, the Parent



103 Article 5(5)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
104 Article 40(12)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 5(5)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
105 Article 40(10)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
106 Article 41(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
107 Article 40(10)(b) read with Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Company is required to notify the FTA within 20 business days from the date the conditions are no longer met.108


6.3.2. Subsidiary ceases to exist upon transfer of Business

If a Subsidiary transfers all of its Business to another member of the Tax Group and ceases to exist as a result of this transfer (for example due to a legal merger), the Subsidiary shall remain a member of the Tax Group until the date it ceases to exist and the Tax Group shall continue to exist.109 The Subsidiary shall be considered to leave the Tax Group on the date it ceases to exist.110

However, if the Tax Group only comprises two members and one member transfers its entire Business to the other member and the first mentioned member ceases to exist as a result of that transfer, the Tax Group shall be considered to cease to exist on the date that the transfer is effective.111

Since the Subsidiary (which ceases to exist) leaves the Tax Group on the transfer of its Business, a gain or loss on the assets and liabilities transferred as part of the transfer of the Business may be taken into account while determining the Taxable Income of the Tax Group, except if such a gain or loss would not have been taken into account had the Subsidiary elected for Business Restructuring Relief or Qualifying
Group Relief.112

108 Article 12 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
109 Article 10(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023. 110 Article 10(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023. 111 Article 10(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
112 Article 42(9) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 11(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of
2023.



The exception does not require the former Subsidiary to elect for Business Restructuring Relief113 or Qualifying Group Relief, but instead the exception applies if:114
* such an election would have been possible if the Tax Group had not existed; and
* no clawback would have applied under Article 26(4) or Article 27(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.

If the former Subsidiary was not eligible to claim the relief or a clawback would have applied under Article 26(4) or Article 27(6) of the Corporate Tax Law, the gain or loss which was not taken into account on the transfer shall be included as Taxable Income on the date when the former Subsidiary left the Tax Group.115

Example 13: A Subsidiary is merged into the Parent Company

Company A (as the Parent Company), Company B and Company C formed a Tax Group during the Tax Period ending 31 December 2024. Company A owns 100% of the share capital of Company B and Company C.

On 1 March 2024, Company B transfers an asset (asset 1) to Company C in exchange for cash.

On 1 March 2025, Company B merges into Company A and ceases to exist. In such a case, Company B will remain a member of the Tax Group until 1 March 2025 (i.e. till it ceases to exist) and will be considered to leave the Tax Group on 1 March 2025.116

* Transfer of assets and liabilities as part of legal merger

The assets or liabilities transferred as part of the legal merger are considered to have transferred within the Tax Group. However, immediately after the merger, Company B has ceased to exist and is considered to leave the Tax Group. In such case, any gain or loss on the transfer of the assets and liabilities is taken into account upon Company B leaving the Tax Group, unless the associated income would have been exempt from Corporate Tax or not taken into account under any other provision of the Corporate Tax Law.117

113 Article 10(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
114 Article 11(1) and 11(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
115 Article 42(10) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 11(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
116 Article 10(1)(a) of the Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
117 Article 42(9) and 42(10) of the Corporate Tax Law.



If the conditions of Business Restructuring Relief are met in relation to the legal merger of Company B with Company A, no gain or loss would need to be taken into account.118 Since the gains or loss would not have been taken into account had Company B elected for Business Restructuring Relief, it would not be taken into account when Company B ceases to exist and leaves the Tax Group.

* Transfer of asset 1 by Company B to Company C

The asset transferred by Company B to Company C on 1 March 2024 (asset 1) was a transaction between two members of the Tax Group and therefore, eliminated for determining Taxable Income for the Tax Period ending 31 December 2024. However, Company B leaves the Tax Group within 2 years from the date of the asset transfer, as it ceased to exist on 1 March 2025 as a result of a transfer of Business under a legal merger.

As Company B ceases to be part of a Qualifying Group with Company C within two years of the transfer of asset 1, the clawback of Qualifying Group Relief is triggered.119 Therefore, the transfer of asset 1 shall be treated as taking place at its Market Value determined at the time of the asset transfer.120 The resulting gain or loss from the transfer of asset 1 by Company B to Company C should be taken into account in the hands of Company B (transferor) on the date the transferor (Company B) leaves the Tax Group.121 However, as Company B ceases to exist, the relevant gain or loss must be taken into account in the hands of the Transferee, being the Tax Group122.

6.4. Change of the Parent Company of a Tax Group

The Parent Company of a Tax Group may submit an application to the FTA to be replaced by another Parent Company without a discontinuation of the Tax Group in any of the following circumstances:

* The new Parent Company meets all the conditions123 (see Section 4) in relation to the former Parent Company.124 In this case, the request should be submitted after the new Parent Company meets the conditions for joining a Tax Group and

118 Article 27(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
119 Article 26(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
120 Article 26(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
121 Article 42(9) and 42(10) of the Corporate Tax Law.
122 Article 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No 132 of 2023 read with Article 26(5) of the Corporate Tax Law
123 Under Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
124 Article 40(12)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


the request should specify the Tax Period when the change is effective. The request should be filed before the end of the Tax Period for which the replacement of the Parent Company is requested;125 or
* The former Parent Company ceases to exist and the new Parent Company or a Subsidiary is its universal legal successor, for instance as a result of a merger or other transfer under universal title. 126 Although an application to form a Tax Group can generally only be submitted once the relevant conditions are met, a request to replace a Parent Company in such circumstances can be made while a transfer under universal title Is being prepared. Once approved, the continuation of the Tax Group applies as of the date when the transfer to the universal legal successor occurs and is conditional on that transfer being completed.

6.5. Compliance impact of changes in a Tax Group

If the conditions for a Tax Group are not met continuously throughout a Tax Period in relation to a specific Subsidiary, that Subsidiary is considered to leave the Tax Group as of the start of that Tax Period.127 As a result, it would need to file a Tax Return as a separate Taxable Person for that Tax Period and is liable for its own Corporate Tax Payable.

If a Tax Group did not realise the conditions for a Tax Group were not met in relation to a certain Subsidiary, it is possible that the Tax Group will have filed Tax Returns as if the Subsidiary was still part of the Tax Group. This implies that such Tax Returns were incorrect and would need to be corrected once the error has been identified. Any Administrative Penalties relating to filing an incorrect Tax Return of the Tax Group and, where applicable, underpayment of Corporate Tax shall be the liability of entities that remain part of the Tax Group. It is also possible that Taxable Persons did not file a Tax Return as they mistakenly thought that the conditions for the Tax Group were met for that Tax Period. In such case, these entities could also be subject to Administrative Penalties for failure to file a Tax Return.

6.5.1. Tax Deregistration

A Subsidiary leaving the Tax Group but which does not cease to exist is not required to deregister for Corporate Tax purposes. The Subsidiary's own Tax Registration Number shall be used for its standalone Tax Returns, paying Corporate Tax and any other compliance obligations.


125 Article 5(1) and 5(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
126 Article 40(12)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
127 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


If a Subsidiary of a Tax Group ceases to exist in a Tax Period (for example, through dissolution or liquidation), the relevant Subsidiary is deemed to leave that Tax Group from the start of that Tax Period,128 except if it ceases to exist as part of a Business restructuring taking place within the Tax Group.129

If the Subsidiary leaves the Tax Group from the start of the Tax Period, it would generally be required to settle its Corporate Tax and Administrative Penalties due and file any Tax Returns for the period between its date of leaving the Tax Group (i.e. the beginning of the relevant Tax Period) and its date of cessation. The former Subsidiary that ceases to exist is required to file an application with the FTA for Tax Deregistration within 3 months of the date when it ceases to exist.130

The Tax Group itself has a separate Tax Registration Number which is not affected if a Subsidiary leaves the Tax Group, unless the Tax Group itself ceases to exist due to the Subsidiary leaving the Tax Group (see Section 7).

6.5.2. Financial Statements

If a member of a Tax Group leaves the Tax Group or the Tax Group ceases to exist, the Parent Company and each Subsidiary leaving the Tax Group shall prepare standalone Financial Statements using the same accounting basis applied by the Tax Group.

The opening values of the assets and liabilities in the standalone Financial Statements will be the value of those assets and liabilities recorded by the Tax Group at the moment that member left the Tax Group or the Tax Group ceased to exist.131

If any assets or liabilities are eliminated on consolidation as they are recognised in standalone Financial Statements only as a result of a transfer within the Tax Group, such assets or liabilities will not have a value recorded by the Tax Group. This can apply to internally created goodwill or customer lists that are recognised in the standalone Financial Statements after a transfer within the Tax Group. In such case, if within two years from the date of transfer, the transferee member of the Tax Group leaves the Tax Group or the Tax Group ceases to exist, the gain or loss on transfer of such an asset or liability may be recognised at Market Value, unless the associated income would have been exempt from Corporate Tax Law or not taken into account
under any other provision of the Corporate Tax Law (see Section 8.2).132

128 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
129 Article 10 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
130 Article 2(2) of FTA Decision No. 6 of 2023.
131 Article 13 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
132 Article 42(9) and 42(10) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 11 of Ministerial Decision No.
125 of 2023.



Within the Tax Group, any loans between members of the Tax Group will be eliminated on consolidation, meaning they will not have a value recorded by the Tax Group. In such case, such assets and liabilities will have an opening value consistent with the applicable Accounting Standards, determined as if these transactions had occurred without a Tax Group being in existence.


7. Cessation of a Tax Group

7.1. General

A Tax Group shall cease to exist in any of the following circumstances:


Circumstance
Date	from	which	Tax	Group	is
dissolved
Following approval by the FTA of an application by the Parent Company133
The Tax Group is dissolved from the beginning of the Tax Period specified in the application submitted or any other
Tax Period determined by the FTA.134
The Parent Company no longer meets the conditions to form a Tax Group135 and is not replaced by another Parent Company without discontinuation of the Tax Group (see Section 6.4).

In such case, the Tax Group should notify
the FTA within 20 business days from the date the conditions are no longer met.136
The Tax Group is dissolved from the beginning of the Tax Period in which the conditions were no longer met.137
If there are only two members of the Tax Group, and one of them transfers its entire Business to the other and ceases to exist as a result of the transfer.138

In such a case, the surviving entity should notify the FTA within 20 business days from the date the transfer of Business has occurred.
The Tax Group is dissolved as of the date that the transfer becomes effective.139

If this occurs in the course of a Tax Period, two separate Tax Returns would need to be filed for the Tax Period-
* Before the transfer under universal title, which will be filed by the Parent Company of the Tax Group under the Tax Group's Tax
Registration Number; and


133 Article 40(11)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
134 Article 41(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
135 Article 40(11)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 136 Article 12 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023. 137 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
138 Article 10(1)(b) of the Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
139 Article 10(1)(b) of the Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.



* After the transfer which will be filed by the surviving entity under that
entity's Tax Registration Number.

In addition, the FTA may at its discretion, dissolve a Tax Group or change the Parent Company of a Tax Group based on information available to the FTA and notify the Parent Company of such action taken.140

Example 14: Parent Company merges into a Subsidiary

Company A directly holds 100% of the shares of Company B and Company C. Assuming all conditions of Article 40(1) of the Corporate Tax Law are met, Company A (as the Parent Company), Company B and Company C formed a Tax Group during the Tax Period ending 31 December 2024.

On 1 May 2025, Company A sells all of the shares in Company C to a third party. On 1 March 2026, Company A merges into Company B, with Company B being Company A's universal legal successor and Company A ceases to exist.

In 2025, the conditions for forming a Tax Group between Company A and Company C are not met continuously. As a result, Company C is considered to leave the Tax Group from the start of the 2025 Tax Period (i.e. on 1 January 2025).141 However, as the conditions for Company A forming a Tax Group with Company B are still met, the Tax Group continues to exist.

On 1 March 2026, Company A enters into a legal merger with Company B, under which it transfers all its assets and liabilities (other than the shares in Company B, which are transferred to Company A's shareholders) to Company B and ceases to exist with Company B being the legal universal successor. The Tax Group shall be considered to cease to exist as of 1 March 2026.142

The obligation to file the Tax Return of the Tax Group is on the Parent Company (i.e. Company A). However, since Company A ceases to exist upon the merger, Company B (in its capacity as legal successor of Company A) will file a Tax Return on behalf of the Tax Group for its last Tax Period from 1 January 2026 to 28 February 2026, and Company B will file a Tax Return as a standalone Taxable Person for the Tax Period from 1 March 2026 to 31 December 2026.



140 Article 40(13) of the Corporate Tax Law.
141 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
142 Article 10(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


7.2. Tax Deregistration of a Tax Group

If a Tax Group ceases to exist as a result of an application by the Parent Company,143 the application shall also be treated as an application for Tax Deregistration of the Tax Group. The Tax Group shall indicate in its application if all Corporate Tax and Administrative Penalties have been paid and all Tax Returns have been filed. If so, the FTA shall also process the Tax Deregistration.144

If a Tax Group ceases as a result of the conditions no longer being met,145 the Tax Group shall notify the FTA within 20 business days.146 This notification shall also be treated as a request to deregister the Tax Group. The Tax Group shall specify in its notification if all Corporate Tax and Administrative Penalties have been paid and all Tax Returns have been filed. If so, the FTA shall also process the Tax Deregistration.147

If there are only two members of the Tax Group, and one of them transfers its entire Business to the other and ceases to exist as a result of the transfer, the Tax Group ceases to exist as of the date that the transfer becomes effective.148 No election to apply Business Restructuring Relief under Article 27 of the Corporate Tax Law is required for this treatment.149 However, the surviving entity shall notify the FTA within
20 business days. 150 This notification shall also be treated as an application to deregister the Tax Group. The Tax Group shall specify in its notification if all Corporate Tax and Administrative Penalties have been paid and all Tax Returns have been filed, in order for the FTA to also process the Tax Deregistration.151















143 Article 40(11)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
144 Article 52(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
145 Article 40(11)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
146 Article 12 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
147 Article 52(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
148 Article 10(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
149 Article 10(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
150 Article 12 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
151 Article 52(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


8. Taxable Income of a Tax Group

8.1. Determining the Taxable Income of a Tax Group

A Tax Group is treated as a single Taxable Person for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law.152 As a result, the Tax Group has a combined Taxable Income, which is reported by the Parent Company. The Parent Company shall calculate the Taxable Income after consolidating the financial results, assets and liabilities with all Subsidiaries and eliminating transactions between the Parent Company and any Subsidiary or between the Subsidiaries that are a member of the Tax Group.153

8.1.1. Elimination of intra-group transactions

The requirement to eliminate intra-group transactions within the Tax Group applies to transactions between the Subsidiaries in the same way as it applies to transactions between the Parent Company and any Subsidiary. 154 This is consistent with the principle that Taxable Income is determined as if the Tax Group is a single Taxable Person. One exception to this is where a member has recognised a deductible loss in a Tax Period in respect of those transactions prior to joining or forming the Tax Group (as described in Section 8.1.2 below).155

The requirement to eliminate intra-group transactions within the Tax Group also applies to valuation adjustments and provisions in relation to transactions within the Tax Group156 and changes in the accounting value of assets and liabilities, where they arise as a result of a gain or loss from a transaction within a Tax Group.157

The above principle similarly applies to income and expenditure. For instance, if one member of a Tax Group (Company A) provides a service to another member of the Tax Group (Company B), this results in an expense and corresponding income that is eliminated on consolidation of the Financial Statements of the Tax Group.

The requirement to eliminate transactions within the Tax Group only applies to periods where the transacting parties are members of the same Tax Group. For instance, if Company A paid AED 100,000 of Interest to Company B in a Tax Period, and Company A and Company B form a Tax Group effective from the beginning of that

152 Article 40(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
153 Article 42(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
154 Article 6(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
155 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
156 Article 6(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
157 Article 6(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


Tax Period, all of the Interest paid in that Tax Period in which the Tax Group is formed is eliminated.158

8.1.2. Exception to elimination of intra-group transactions

As an exception to Section 8.1.1, the requirement to eliminate intra-group transactions does not apply to transactions where a member has recognised a deductible loss in a Tax Period in respect of those transactions prior to joining or forming the Tax Group, until the deductible loss is reversed in full.159 In such cases, the transaction is not eliminated and income is included in the Taxable Income of the Tax Group up to the amount that was previously deducted prior to joining or forming the Tax Group.160

This can occur if, for instance, one member of the Tax Group has recognised a deductible loss by impairing a loan receivable due from another member of the Tax Group prior to the joining or the formation of the Tax Group. In that case, the relevant transaction shall not be eliminated. Any income in relation to the transaction, for example reversal of the impairment, shall be included in the Taxable income of the Tax Group up to the same amount as the deductible loss previously deducted. After the reversal of the impairment has been taken into account up to the same amount as the deductible loss, the exception will no longer apply, i.e. the loan will be eliminated as an intra-group transaction. This prevents the non-taxation of income on an intra- group transaction where that income reverses a loss that had already been deducted prior to forming or joining a Tax Group.

This exception to elimination only applies on transactions that resulted in both a "deductible loss" before the joining or formation of the Tax Group and a reversal of such loss after the joining or formation of the Tax Group. The exception requires the inclusion of income in relation to such a transaction, but would not allow a Tax Group to claim an additional deductible loss on such a transaction.161 For example, if one member of the Tax Group has recognised a deductible loss by partially impairing a loan due from another member of the Tax Group prior to the joining or the formation of the Tax Group, the exception does not apply to any further impairments of such a loan. As a result, any further impairment (after the lender and borrower form part of a Tax Group) will be eliminated and, therefore, not be deductible. However, the exception to elimination would apply to a reversal of the impairment, as this would generate income that could wholly or partially reverse the deductible loss.162


158 Article 41(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
159 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
160 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
161 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
162 Article 4(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


In addition, the exception only applies on income that represents a reversal of the deductible loss on the same transaction.163 For instance, if a company (Company A) has provided an Interest-bearing loan to another company (Company B), the Interest would generally result in a deductible loss for the borrower (Company B). If Company A and Company B are included in a Tax Group in a later Tax Period, a reversal of the Interest payable that was previously deducted (such as in the form of release or waiver) is not eliminated on consolidation. However, if the Interest was paid (whether in cash or in kind) and Company A or Company B realises income in relation to that loan on another basis (such as the receipt of interest for Company A or the release of principal amount for Company B), this is not a reversal of the deductible loss.

Similarly, if a company (Company C) incurs a foreign exchange loss on a loan provided to or from another company (Company D), that foreign exchange loss would generally be a deductible loss. If Company C and Company D are included in a Tax Group in a later Tax Period, a reversal of the foreign exchange loss within the Tax Group is not eliminated on consolidation.

8.2. Consequence of leaving a Tax Group or cessation of Tax Group on transfers within the Tax Group

The requirement to eliminate transactions within the Tax Group generally also applies to transfers of assets and liabilities between members of the Tax Group. However, the gain or loss on such a transfer may need to be taken into account at the level of the transferor or the transferee, if either party leaves the Tax Group within 2 years from the date of the transfer. One exception to this is those cases where the associated income would have been exempt or not taken into account for Corporate Tax purposes (for instance, under the Participation Exemption, Business Restructuring Relief or Qualifying Group Relief) and the relevant conditions for such reliefs were and continue to be met (as applicable).164

Unless the exception applies, any corresponding gain or loss on transfer of assets and/or liabilities which was not taken into account previously, will be taken into account when the transferor or transferee leaves the Tax Group within 2 years from the date of the transfer.165 The gain or loss in question will be calculated consistently with the other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.

If there is no other provision of the Corporate Tax Law that either exempts the transfer or requires the income to not be taken into account, the corresponding income shall be taken into account by the transferor or the Tax Group (as the case may be), on the

163 Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
164 Article 42(9) of the Corporate Tax Law.
165 Article 42(9) of the Corporate Tax Law.


date the transferor or transferee leaves the Tax Group and the transferee or the Tax Group (as the case may be), shall make a corresponding adjustment to the cost base of the asset or liability for Corporate Tax purposes.166

If the Tax Group ceases to exist on the same date that the transferor or the transferee leaves the Tax Group, the income shall be taken into account by the Tax Group in its last Tax Return (if the Transferee leaves the Tax Group, or by the Transferor if the Transferor leaves the Tax Group).

The situation where a Subsidiary transfers its entire Business to another member of the same Tax Group and then ceases to exist as a result of this transfer is discussed in Section 6.3.2.

Example 15: Transfer within the Tax Group

Company A, Company B and Company C are members of a Tax Group for the Tax Period 2024. Company A is the Parent Company and Company B and Company C are the Subsidiaries. All Tax Group members use the Gregorian calendar year as their Financial Year. The following transactions take place between the members of the Tax Group.

Date of the transaction
Description of the transaction
Net book value of asset 1
Market value of asset 1

31 March 2024
Company A transfers an
asset ('asset 1') to Company B

AED 1 million

AED 1.2 million
31 March 2025
 Company B transfers 'asset 1' to Company C
AED 1 million
AED 1.4 million

1 February 2027
Company A transfers the shares in Company B to a third party

AED 1 million

AED 1.5 million

Tax Period ending 31 December 2024: Since the transfer of the asset from Company A to Company B is a transaction between two members of a Tax Group, this transaction will be eliminated while calculating Taxable Income of the Tax Group for this Tax Period.

Tax Period ending 31 December 2025: Since the transfer of the asset from Company B to Company C is a transaction between two members of a Tax Group, this transaction will be eliminated while calculating Taxable Income of the Tax Group for this Tax Period.





166 Article 42(10) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Tax Period ending 31 December 2027:
* As a result of the transfer of the shares of Company B to a third party, Company B is considered to leave the Tax Group from the beginning of Tax Period 2027 (i.e. 1 January 2027).167 This will be the case even if the sale had occurred later in 2027 (e.g. after 31 March 2027). The Tax Group with Parent Company (Company A) continues with its other Subsidiary.
* Transfers of assets and liabilities between members of the Tax Group should not be eliminated, where the transferor or the transferee leaves the Tax Group within 2 years from the date of the transfer.168
* This rule does not impact the transfer of the asset from Company A to Company B on 31 March 2024 since Company B does not leave the Tax Group within 2 years from the date of the transfer.
* However, Company B leaves the Tax Group within 2 years from the transfer of the asset from Company B to Company C on 31 March 2025. Hence, the gain or loss on such transfer shall need to be taken into account, unless the associated gain or loss on the transfer of the asset would have been exempt or not taken into account under another provision of the Corporate Tax Law.169
* This means it should be assessed if the transfer of asset from Company B to Company C could have qualified for Qualifying Group Relief, if Company B and Company C had not been members of a Tax Group, and that the clawback of Qualifying Group Relief is not triggered.
* As shares of Company B are sold to a third party, Company B ceases to be part of the same Qualifying Group as Company C within two years of the transfer, hence, Qualifying Group Relief would have been clawed back.170
* Thus, the gain on the transfer of the asset must be determined in the hands of the transferor with reference to Market Value at the time of transfer.171 In this case, at the time of the transfer of the asset to Company C, the net book value of the asset was AED 1 million and Market Value was AED 1.4 million. Thus, the gain at time of transfer would be AED 0.4 million.
* Thus, a gain of AED 0.4 million is taken into account on the date the transferee leaves the Tax Group (i.e. on 1 January 2027) and so is included in the Taxable Income of the Transferor for the Tax Period ending 31 December 2027.172




167 Article 41(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 168 Article 42(9) of the Corporate Tax Law. 169 Article 42(9) of the Corporate Tax Law. 170 Article 26(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 171 Article 26(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
172 Article 42(10) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 11(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.




8.3. Application of the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law to Tax Groups

A Tax Group is treated as a single Taxable Person for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law.174 As a result, the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law have to be applied to the Tax Group as a whole, unless specifically provided otherwise in the Corporate Tax Law.175

8.3.1. Application of reduced Corporate Tax rate and Small Business Relief

The portion of the Taxable Income that is subject to the 0% Corporate Tax rate will be limited to AED 375,000,176 regardless of the number of entities that are included in the Tax Group.

Similarly, as discussed in Section 4.6.3, whether Small Business Relief is available shall be determined by reference to the consolidated Revenue of the entire Tax Group.177

8.3.2. Application of ownership conditions at the level of Tax Group

For the purposes of the Participation Exemption178, whether the Tax Group holds a 5% or greater ownership interest in the shares or capital is determined by combining ownership interests held by all members of the Tax Group as well as ownership interests held by other entities that are not part of the Tax Group but that belong to the same Qualifying Group with any of the members of that Tax Group.179

Also, for the purposes of the Participation Exemption, the acquisition cost of ownership interests held by all members of the Tax Group as well as entities who are not part of the Tax Group but are a member of a Qualifying Group with any of the members of the Tax Group, should be combined to determine whether the aggregated acquisition cost is equal to or exceeds AED 4 million.180


173 Article 42(10) of the Corporate Tax Law. 174 Article 40(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 175 Article 42(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
176 Article 3(1) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 116 of 2022.
177 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.
178 Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.
179 Article 3(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
180 Article 8(1) read with Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


For the purposes of the ownership requirements for Qualifying Group Relief181 and the transfer of Tax Losses,182 the direct and indirect ownership interest held by members of the same Tax Group shall be determined on the basis of the aggregation of the ownership interests of the Parent Company and each Subsidiary that is a member of the Tax Group.183

8.3.3. Application of Qualifying Group Relief

A Taxable Person can elect to not take into account gains or losses in relation to transfers within a Qualifying Group.184 The election should be made when filing the Tax Return for the Tax Period in which the transfer within a Qualifying Group takes place.185 Such an election is irrevocable.186 If a Tax Group makes such an election for Qualifying Group Relief, it shall apply to all members of the Tax Group and the election would continue to apply to the members even after such members leave the Tax Group or after the Tax Group ceases to exist.

A Taxable Person that has not made an election for Qualifying Group Relief is treated as making such an election if it forms a Tax Group or joins a Tax Group that includes one or more members that have made such an election. Similarly, a Tax Group that has not made such an election, is treated as making the election if a new Subsidiary joins the Tax Group and such Subsidiary has made such an election.

If a member of a Tax Group transfers an asset or liability to or from a member of its Qualifying Group (not being part of the Tax Group), no gain or loss needs to be taken into account in relation to this transfer.187 However, a gain or loss may need to be taken into account if, within 2 years from the date of the transfer, the transferor and the transferee cease to be members of the same Qualifying Group or there is a subsequent transfer of the asset or liability outside the Qualifying Group.188

Two Taxable Persons can be members of a Qualifying Group when certain conditions are satisfied.189 One of the conditions is that a Taxable Person has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% in another Taxable Person or a common owner that



181 Article 26(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
182 Article 38(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
183 Article 9 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
184 Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
185 Article 3(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
186 Article 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 132 of 2023.
187 Article 26(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 188 Article 26(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 189 Article 26(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


holds at least 75% in both Taxable Persons.190 As the ownership interests held by members of the Tax Group are aggregated (see Section 8.3.2),191 it is possible that two Taxable Persons are in a Qualifying Group while one of them is in a Tax Group, but would no longer be in a Qualifying Group once such Tax Group ceases to exist. Therefore, it is possible that the Qualifying Group Relief may need to be clawed back if a Subsidiary leaves a Tax Group or if a Tax Group ceases to exist within two years of the transfer in respect of which Qualifying Group Relief was applied.192

8.3.4. Application of limitation of Tax Losses carried forward

A Tax Loss can be carried forward by a Taxable Person provided any of the following applies:
* the owners of the Taxable Person continuously hold at least 50% ownership from the start of the period in which the Tax Loss is incurred to the end of the Tax Period in which the Tax Loss is used to offset against Taxable Income (the "ownership condition"),193 or
* there is a change in ownership of more than 50%, Tax Losses can still be carried forward provided the same or similar Business is carried on following the change in ownership (the "Business continuity condition").194

For the limitation of Tax Losses carried forward rule (under Article 39(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law, i.e. the requirement to have continuous 50% ownership); when applying the ownership condition, only the ownership interest in the Parent Company of the Tax Group is relevant.

The conditions in Articles 39(1)(b) and 39(2) of the Corporate Tax Law (i.e. the requirement to conduct the same or similar business if there is a greater than 50% change in ownership), are to be determined by reference to Business Activities of the Tax Group as a whole. In other words, if a substantial part of the Business of the Tax Group is operated by a particular Subsidiary, it is possible that the Business continuity condition in Article 39(1)(b) is not met in respect of a Tax Loss of the Tax Group after that Subsidiary leaves the Tax Group, which would prevent the carry forward and use of the loss, if there had been a change of ownership of more than 50% in the Parent Company.

This means that if a substantial part of the Business of the Tax Group was carried out by one or more Subsidiaries, it is possible that the Business continuity condition is not


190 Article 26(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
191 Article 9 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
192 Article 26(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
193 Article 39(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
194 Article 39(1)(b) and 39(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


met for the Parent Company after the Tax Group has ceased to exist if there is a change of ownership of more than 50% in the Parent Company.

When applying the ownership condition to pre-Grouping Tax Losses (see Section 10), only the ownership interest in the relevant Subsidiary is relevant. The Business continuity condition is determined by reference to Business Activities of that Subsidiary. In other words, if the Subsidiary transfers a substantial part of its Business within the Tax Group, it is possible that its remaining Business is no longer the same or similar to the Business it was when its pre-Grouping Tax Losses were incurred. That means that the Business continuity condition may not be met in respect of the pre- Grouping Tax Losses of that Subsidiary.

8.3.5. Application of election for realisation basis

8.3.5.1. General

As the Tax Group determines its Taxable Income on a consolidated basis, 195 all members of the Tax Group would need to follow the same accounting basis in calculating the Taxable Income. The Tax Group will need to determine whether to prepare its consolidated Financial Statements on a Cash Basis (if permitted) or an Accrual Basis of Accounting in a manner consistent with the relevant Accounting Standards and the Corporate Tax Law.

If a Tax Group prepares its Financial Statements on an Accrual Basis of Accounting, the Tax Group can make an election during its first Tax Period to take into account gains and losses on a realisation basis (in respect of either all accounting gains or losses or only gains and losses on assets and liabilities held on capital account), provided the relevant conditions are met.196 If the Tax Group makes the election for realisation basis, it would make the specified adjustments to its Taxable Income in respect of assets and liabilities held by each member of the Tax Group.197

If a member of the Tax Group leaves the Tax Group or the Tax Group ceases to exist, the relevant former members of the Tax Group are required to prepare their standalone Financial Statements on the same accounting basis as applied by the Tax Group and to adopt the values of the relevant assets and liabilities as recorded by the Tax Group as the opening value of those assets and liabilities in the standalone Financial Statements.198 Therefore, if the Tax Group has applied an Accrual Basis of Accounting and has elected to take into account gains and losses on a realisation

195 Article 42(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
196 Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax law.
197 Article 2(3) and 2(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.


basis, 199 any former member of the Tax Group is required to follow the same accounting basis and the same election. Similarly, if the Tax Group has not made an election, any former member of the Tax Group is required to follow the same basis.

If the Tax Group includes members that had a first Tax Period before joining the Tax Group, these members would have determined their standalone basis of accounting and would have made a decision to elect or not elect for the realisation basis in their first Tax Period. It is possible that the Tax Group made a different decision than a member that joined the Tax Group after its first Tax Period. In such case, the joining member will need to follow the decision of the Tax Group. For example, if a Taxable Person (i.e. Subsidiary) that did not elect for the realisation basis joins a Tax Group that has elected for the realisation basis, any unrealised gains or losses of the joining Subsidiary will be included in the Taxable Income of the Tax Group only upon realisation.

A decision to make an election or not make an election is irrevocable, except under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to approval by the FTA.200 An exceptional circumstance where an entity is allowed to change its election is where a Subsidiary joins a Tax Group which has not elected for the realisation basis but the Subsidiary has previously made the election. In such case, the Subsidiary cannot continue to apply the realisation basis. Hence, approval does not need to be sought from the FTA as the approval of a request to form a Tax Group can be considered approval to revoke the Subsidiary's previous election for realisation basis.

A Taxable Person (Parent Company or Subsidiary) should specify a change in such election in its application to form or join a Tax Group, which will be considered by the FTA before the application is approved. If the application to form or join the Tax Group is approved in these circumstances, the relevant member would be required to follow the same accounting basis and election made (or not made) by the Tax Group, even in Tax Periods after it has left the Tax Group or the Tax Group ceases to exist.201

8.3.5.2. Banks and Insurance Providers

Banks and Insurance Providers can elect for realisation basis only in relation to assets and liabilities held on capital account and not on all assets and liabilities that are subject to fair value or impairment accounting.202




199 Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
200 Article 8(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
201 Article 13 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


If a Tax Group includes any such Taxable Persons, the Tax Group would not be allowed to make such an election for realisation basis in respect of all assets and liabilities that are subject to fair value or impairment accounting, as the Tax Group consolidates financial results, assets and liabilities applying a single accounting basis for the purposes of determining Taxable Income.203 Similarly, if Banks or Insurance Providers apply to join an existing Tax Group, the Tax Group would not be allowed to apply realisation basis on all assets and liabilities that are subject to fair value or impairment accounting. In such situations, the Tax Group may be required to change its election or to revoke an existing election.

As indicated above, a decision to make an election or not to make an election is irrevocable, except under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to approval by the FTA.204 If a Bank or Insurance Provider applies to join a Tax Group which has elected to apply realisation basis on all assets and liabilities that are subject to fair value or impairment accounting, this may be an exceptional circumstance under which a previous election can be amended or revoked.

8.3.6. Deduction of expenditure

Expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the Taxable Person's Business that is not capital in nature shall be deductible.205 In the case of a Tax Group, whether expenditure is incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of a Taxable Person's Business should be assessed on the basis of the whole Tax Group. Therefore, expenditure may be deductible if it is incurred wholly and exclusively for the Business of another member of the Tax Group (or the Business of several members of the Tax Group). Expenditure incurred for the purposes of a non-Tax Group member's business, (for instance a foreign parent that is not a Resident Person) is not deductible.

8.3.7. Application of transitional rules

A Taxable Person's opening balance sheet for Corporate Tax purposes is the closing balance sheet prepared for financial reporting purposes under applicable Accounting Standards on the last day of the Financial Year that ends immediately before their first Tax Period commences.206 The transitional rules in the Corporate Tax Law aim to limit the taxable gain to the gain which arises after the start of the first Tax Period, in relation to certain categories of assets that are owned by the Taxable Person prior to the first Tax Period.207

203 Article 42(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
204 Article 8(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
205 Article 28(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
206 Article 61(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.



In the case of Tax Groups formed in the first Tax Period following the introduction of Corporate Tax, the opening balance sheet of a Tax Group is the consolidated (aggregated) balance sheet of each member of the Tax Group on the last day of the Financial Year that ends immediately before the beginning of the Tax Group's first Tax Period. Any election in respect of transitional rules needs to be made by the Tax Group and will continue to apply to any members of the Tax Group after they leave the Tax Group or the Tax Group ceases to exist.

Further, adjustments can be made to the Taxable Income of a Taxable Person in respect of gains recognised on Immovable Property, Intangible Assets and Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities owned prior to the Taxable Person's first Tax Period.208

In the case of Tax Groups, when determining whether these assets were owned prior to the first Tax Period,209 ownership of the asset by all members of the Tax Group should be considered.210

When calculating the apportionment of gains under the transitional rules,211 any period in which a member of the Tax Group held the relevant asset should be considered.212 This means that if an asset, within the scope of the transitional rules has been transferred between members of a Tax Group, the ownership period is determined by combining all ownership periods, provided that the Tax Group was formed as of the start of the first Tax Period.






Date
Event
27 January 2019
Company A acquired an Immovable Property in the
UAE from a third party for AED 10 million
1 December 2021
Company B was incorporated with Company A as its
100% shareholder.
1 January 2022
Company A transferred the Immovable Property to
Company B for AED 12 million. Company B measures its Immovable Property on a historical cost basis.




208 Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
209 As required for Articles 2(1)(a) and 3(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
210 Article 5(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
211 As required for Articles 2(2) and 3(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


1 January 2024
Company A and Company B form a Tax Group and follow the Gregorian calendar year as its Tax Period

The net book value of the Immovable Property as of 1 January 2024 is AED 12 million. The Market Value of the Immovable Property as of 1 January 2024 is AED
19 million.
19 July 2025
Company B sells the Immovable Property for AED 20 million. As a result, Company B includes a gain of AED
8 million in its financial statements.

In its first Tax Return, the Tax Group elects to apply the transitional rules in relation to the Immovable Property. In this regard, it elects to apply the Market Value to determine any gain or loss on disposal in the future.213

Based on the election made by the Tax Group, the following amount is excluded in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal:
The amount of gain that would have arisen if Company B had disposed of the Immovable Property at Market Value at the start of the first Tax Period and the cost of the Immovable Property was the higher of the original cost and the net book value.214 Therefore, the following points are considered.
* The start of the first Tax Period is 1 January 2024.
* The Market Value of the Immovable Property as of 1 January 2024 is AED 19 million.
* The original cost for the Tax Group was AED 10 million.
* The net book value at the start of the first Tax Period is AED 12 million, which is higher.
As a result, this would exclude a gain of AED 7 million (AED 19 million minus AED 12 million) from the Taxable Income of the Tax Group.

The transitional rules apply to certain assets and liabilities owned prior to a Taxable Person's first Tax Period.215 If a new Tax Group is formed in subsequent Tax Periods, it is not possible for the Tax Group to elect for the transitional rules if the members of the Tax Group had one or more Tax Periods before forming the Tax Group.

It is possible that a Taxable Person has elected to apply the transitional rules on such assets or liabilities and enters into a Tax Group in a later Tax Period. If so, the transitional relief will continue to apply in relation to such assets and liabilities that


213 Article 2(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
214 Article 2(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.
215 Articles 2(5), 3(5) and 4(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 120 of 2023.


were held at the start of the first Tax Period by any Taxable Person that has made the election.

8.4. Treatment of Subsidiaries which have shareholders outside the Tax Group

All the income of the members of the Tax Group is included in the Taxable Income of the Tax Group, unless specified otherwise.216 This means that any income realised by a Subsidiary should be included in full in the Taxable Income of the Tax Group (unless eliminated through consolidation), even if the Parent Company does not wholly own the Subsidiary.

At the level of the Tax Group, the ownership in Subsidiaries that is held by Persons who are not members of the Tax Group is recorded as part of the Tax Group's capital. Similarly, if a Parent Company sells shares in a Subsidiary to a third party while continuing to meet the conditions of the Tax Group, any capital gain or loss arising on such a transaction under the applicable Accounting Standards may benefit from the Participation Exemption.217

Profit distributions from Subsidiaries to other members of the Tax Group (the Parent Company or other Subsidiaries) should be eliminated in the computation of the Taxable Income of the Tax Group.218

























216 Article 42 of the Corporate Tax Law.
217 Article 23(5)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
218 Article 42(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


9. Attribution of Taxable Income between members of a Tax Group
9.1. Situations in which attribution is required

A Tax Group is required to calculate the Taxable Income attributable to one or more of its members in the following situations:219
* A member of the Tax Group has unutilised pre-Grouping Tax Losses (see Section 10).
* A member of the Tax Group has earned income for which the Tax Group can claim a Foreign Tax Credit.
* A member of the Tax Group benefits from any Corporate Tax incentives as specified under Article 20(2)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law.
* A member of the Tax Group has unutilised carried forward pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure.

If a Tax Group has not attributed its Taxable Income, it would not be possible to claim relief for the situations mentioned above.

9.2. Principles of attribution of Taxable Income

For the purposes of attribution of Taxable Income to members of a Tax Group, the Taxable Income is calculated as if each member were a separate Taxable Person using the accounting basis of the Tax Group.

Transactions between members of a Tax Group should be determined consistently with the arm's length principle where these transactions have been eliminated under consolidation. 220 If such transactions between members of a Tax Group are not eliminated in consolidation,221 the transaction shall have the same value as reflected in the consolidated Financial Statements of the Tax Group (see Section 8.1.2).

The attribution should be done based on the guiding principles elaborated on below. However, if these guiding principles do not result in a reasonable result, the FTA may require different attribution principles to be used.






219 Article 8(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023 220 Article 8(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023. 221 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


9.3. Application of arm's length standard

In each case, the attribution of Taxable Income to individual members of the Tax Group should be calculated in accordance with all provisions of the Corporate Tax Law, including the arm's length standard in Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.222 This means that transactions between members of the Tax Group should be determined consistently with the arm's length standard. For instance, if a sale between entities of the same Tax Group occurs at a value that is above or below the arm's length standard (determined in line with Article 34), the price should be corrected for the purposes of the attribution to the arm's length standard. Similarly, if a member of the Tax Group has supplied a service to another member of the Tax Group, but no price was charged, the attribution of Taxable Income should ordinarily create a deduction (if allowed under the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law) and corresponding Taxable Income for the service for an amount consistent with Article 34.

If a member of a Tax Group has incurred an external cost for the benefit of the Business Activities of another member of the Tax Group, the attribution of Taxable Income should be determined as if the cost had been passed on, if it would be consistent with the arm's length standard to pass on such cost.

However, the above general principle should be balanced by the further general principle that in the determination of the Taxable Income attributable to a particular Subsidiary, the combined Taxable Income of the individual members of the Tax Group should not (and cannot) exceed the Taxable Income of the Tax Group.

If a member of the Tax Group has an item of income (or expenditure) on a standalone basis that is eliminated on consolidation, but for which no other member of the Tax Group has corresponding expenditure (or income), the relevant income or expenditure will not be recognised for the purposes of the attribution of Taxable Income.

This can occur if one member recognises income on a transaction, but the other member would add the cost to the cost base of an asset. It can also occur if one member recognises an impairment loss on a loan receivable or an account receivable, but the other member would not recognise a corresponding release of the liability.

Having regard to the above, for the purposes of attribution of Taxable Income, transfers of assets and liabilities between Tax Group members can be treated as occurring on a no gain or loss basis, which is consistent with the treatment for Qualifying Group Relief under Article 26 of the Corporate Tax Law.




222 Article 8(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


9.4. Lending transactions between Tax Group members

As outlined in Section 9.2, transactions between members of the Tax Group are taken into account for the attribution of Taxable Income to individual members of the Tax Group. In line with this, if a member of a Tax Group has provided an Interest-bearing loan, the amount of Interest due will generally increase the Taxable Income attributable to the lender. It would also reduce Taxable Income attributable to the borrower.223

While determining the Taxable Income attributable to the member of the Tax Group that is the borrower, restrictions on Interest deduction under the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule224 and the Specific Interest Deduction Limitation Rule225 have to be considered. If the Interest relates to a loan from a member of a Tax Group and the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule or the Specific Interest Deduction Limitation Rule limits the Interest deduction for the borrower member, the corresponding Interest income of the lender member of the Tax Group will also be reduced when attributing Taxable Income to such lender member. This is based on the general principle that Taxable Income attributed to members cannot exceed the total Taxable Income of the Tax Group, meaning that a restriction of deduction leads to non-inclusion of Taxable Income.

Interest deduction on loans provided by third parties would only be restricted for the purposes of the attribution if, and only if, the Interest deduction is also restricted for the Tax Group. Again, this is based on the general principle that Taxable Income attributed to members cannot exceed the total Taxable Income of the Tax Group.

If the lender of a loan wholly or partially impairs its receivable, such impairment would not generally result in corresponding income for the borrower. Therefore, within a Tax Group this is a deduction on a transaction without creating corresponding income in another member of the Tax Group. In such a situation the deduction should not be taken into account for the purposes of the attribution of Taxable Income.

If the lender impairs Interest payable or accrued in the current period on a loan between members of the same Tax Group, this impairment is considered to take place after the initial recognition of Interest income. This means the lender recognises both Interest income and impairment of the Interest receivable even if only the netted amount is shown in the Financial Statements. As a result, if Interest expenditure is recognised by the borrower on a standalone basis, this expenditure would reduce the attribution of Taxable Income to the borrower and the corresponding income would increase the attribution of Taxable Income to the lender.

223 Article 29 of the Corporate Tax Law. 224 Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law. 225 Article 31 of the Corporate Tax Law.


If a lender recognises income on a reversal of a previous impairment on a loan between members of the same Tax Group, this would not generally result in a corresponding deduction for the borrower, except where a deductible loss was recognised by a member of the Tax Group in relation to that loan prior to forming or joining the Tax Group. 226 Unless this exception applies, the reversal of such impairment is not taken into account for the purposes of the attribution of Taxable Income.

If a lender releases or waives a loan between members of the same Tax Group, this release or waiver would generally result in income for the borrower due to cancellation of its liability. This income would be taken into account for the attribution of Taxable Income up to an arm's length standard and up to the loss that the lender reports in the same Tax Period in relation to the loan.

Example 17: Attribution of income between members of a Tax Group

Company A and Company B are in a Tax Group as of 1 January 2025. Company A and Company B both use the Gregorian calendar year as their Tax Period.

Company A and Company B have unutilised pre-Grouping Tax Losses and hence, the Tax Group is required to determine Taxable Income attributable to Company A and Company B on a standalone basis.227

Company A holds a loan receivable of AED 1 million with Company B as the borrower with an Interest rate of 5%. Interest is payable annually.
* In 2026, Company A impairs the loan receivable from Company B to zero. In 2026, Company B continues to recognise the liability for the full nominal amount of AED 1 million.
* In 2027, Company A releases the loan, creating AED 1 million of income for Company B, which is assumed to be consistent with the arm's length principle.

If Company A were a separate Taxable Person, it would recognise a deduction against Taxable Income of AED 1 million in 2026 as a result of the impairment. If Company B were a separate Taxable Person, it would not recognise Taxable Income in 2026 as a result of the impairment. Thus, on a standalone basis, there is no income in Company B corresponding to the deduction in Company A. However, for the purposes of calculating the Taxable Income of the Tax Group for the 2026 Tax Period, the transaction is eliminated on consolidation. Therefore, in the Tax Period 2026, the impairment loss is not taken into account for the attribution of Taxable Income attributable to Company A and Company B.

226 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
227 Article 8(1)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.





10. Tax Losses

10.1. Tax Losses applicable to Tax Groups

Tax Losses of a Tax Period can be carried forward to subsequent Tax Periods upon satisfaction of certain conditions (see Section 8.3.4).228 Tax Losses carried forward can be offset against the Taxable Income of subsequent Tax Periods, when the conditions of utilisation are met.229 A Tax Loss carried forward to a subsequent Tax Period must be set off against Taxable Income of that period first, up to the 75% Taxable Income limit,230 with any remaining loss available for carry forward to further subsequent Tax Periods.231

Where a Tax Loss as been transferred to a Taxable Person (including a Tax Group),232 that Tax Loss can only be utilised by such Tax Group after utilising its own Tax Losses and any pre-Grouping Tax Losses, to the extent the conditions of utilisation of Tax Loss are met.233

Pre-Grouping Tax Losses are the unutilised Tax Losses of a Subsidiary that joins a Tax Group.234 Further, if a Tax Group utilises Tax Losses, pre-Grouping Tax Losses have to be utilised before Tax Losses of the Tax Group can be utilised.235 A Taxable Person cannot claim Tax Loss relief for Tax Losses incurred before the commencement of Corporate Tax.236 Hence, if a Tax Group is formed from 1 January 2024, pre-Grouping Tax Losses of its members cannot be claimed.

If a Subsidiary joins a Tax Group, its existing unutilised Tax Losses become pre- Grouping Tax Losses that can only be offset against the Taxable Income of the Tax Group insofar as this income is attributable to the relevant Subsidiary.237

Existing unutilised Tax Losses of an existing Tax Group cannot be used against the Taxable Income of a Subsidiary that has joined the existing Tax Group after the Tax Losses were incurred ("restricted Tax Group Tax Losses"). 238 The utilisation of

228 Article 39 of the Corporate Tax Law. 229 Article 37(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 230 Article 37(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 231 Article 37(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 232 Article 38 of the Corporate Tax Law.
233 Article 37(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
234 Article 42(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
235 Article 7(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
236 Article 37(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
237 Article 42(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
238 Article 42(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.


restricted Tax Group Tax Losses follows the same utilisation and attribution principles as are applicable to pre-Grouping Tax Losses. This restriction does not apply if a Tax Group is formed for the first time. In such case, existing Tax Losses of the Parent Company will be regarded as Tax Losses of the Tax Group.

10.2. Order of utilisation of Tax Losses

10.2.1. Limits on utilisation

A Tax Group is treated as a single Taxable Person.239 This means that the Tax Group has a single, combined Taxable Income. In case one member of the Tax Group would have incurred a Tax Loss on a standalone basis and another member of the Tax Group realises positive Taxable Income, these results are offset automatically within the Tax Group through the process of consolidation. If the calculation of the Taxable Income of the Tax Group results in a Tax Loss, this is a Tax Loss of the Tax Group and not a Tax Loss of any member of the Tax Group.

If a Subsidiary subsequently leaves the Tax Group, such a Tax Loss will remain with the Tax Group.240 If a Tax Group ceases to exist, such Tax Loss shall remain with the Parent Company.241

Where the calculation of the Taxable Income of a Tax Group results in a Tax Loss in a Tax Period and becomes a carried forward Tax Loss for a subsequent Tax Period, any pre-Grouping Tax Losses available to be utilised in a subsequent Tax Period must be offset against the Taxable Income of the Tax Group in that subsequent Tax Period, before the other carried forward Tax Losses of the Tax Group can be utilised in that same Tax Period.242

Thus, pre-Grouping Tax Losses can only be offset where the Tax Group has Taxable Income and only insofar as Taxable Income is attributable to the relevant member of the Tax Group.243 Therefore, utilisation of pre-Grouping Tax Losses requires both:244
* the Tax Group to have Taxable Income (before taking into account a Tax Loss brought forward from a prior year); and
* Taxable Income that can be attributed to the relevant member of the Tax Group.




239 Article 40(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 240 Article 42(6) of the Corporate Tax Law. 241 Article 42(7)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
242 Article 7(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
243 Article 42(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
244 Article 7(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


Utilisation of carried forward Tax Losses is limited up to 75% of the Taxable Income.245 That restriction only applies at Tax Group level.246 In other words, the utilisation of pre- Grouping Tax Losses is not limited to 75% of the Taxable Income attributable to the relevant member of the Tax Group.


10.2.2. Order of utilisation where there are several Tax Losses

Several clauses in the Corporate Tax Law and its implementing decisions place restrictions on the order in which different types of Tax Losses can be utilised. As a result of these restrictions, the utilisation of Tax Losses by Tax Groups is in the following order:
* Pre-Grouping Tax Losses have to be utilised before Tax Losses of the Tax Group can be utilised.248
* Where there are several pre-Grouping Tax Losses that could be utilised, the Parent Company shall determine the order in which they are utilised.249



245 Article 37(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
246 Article 42(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.
247 Article 7(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
248 Article 7(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
249 Article 7(3) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


* After utilisation of pre-Grouping Tax Losses, Tax Groups can utilise Tax Losses of the Tax Group.
* The Tax Losses of the Tax Group should be utilised in the order they were incurred.
* As restricted Tax Group Tax Losses are Tax Losses which predate certain Subsidiaries joining the Tax Group, 250 restricted Tax Group Tax Losses necessarily relate to earlier Tax Periods and are required to be utilised (if the conditions for utilisation are met) before utilisation of later Tax Losses of the Tax Group.
* After utilisation of pre-Grouping Tax Losses and Tax Losses of the Tax Group, the Tax Group can utilise any Tax Losses that were transferred to it under Article 38 of the Corporate Tax Law.251

Example 19: Transfer of Tax Losses and multiple pre-Grouping Tax Losses

Company A, Company B and Company C, are in a Tax Group as of 1 January 2025. All three companies use the Gregorian calendar year as their accounting period.
Company B has a pre-Grouping Tax Loss of AED 1 million (incurred in 2024). Company C has a pre-Grouping Tax Loss of AED 0.8 million (incurred in 2024).

In 2025, the Tax Group incurred a Tax Loss of AED 0.3 million.

In 2026, the Tax Group realised Taxable Income of AED 2 million. The Taxable Income in 2026 is attributed as follows:
* Company A: Tax Loss of AED 0.2 million
* Company B: Taxable Income of AED 1.2 million
* Company C: Taxable Income of AED 1 million

The Tax Losses of the Tax Group can only be utilised after utilisation of the pre- Grouping Tax Losses (to the extent possible).

Under Article 37(2) of the Corporate Tax Law, at most AED 1.5 million (i.e. 75% of 2 million) of the Tax Group's Taxable Income can be offset with Tax Losses.252

The utilisation of pre-Grouping Tax Losses is limited to this amount. Therefore, the Tax Group has sufficient Taxable Income to utilise the pre-Grouping Tax Loss of


250 Article 42(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
251 Article 37(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
252 Article 7(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


Company B or Company C. The income attributed to Company B and Company C is also sufficient to utilise the pre-Grouping Tax Losses of such entities.

However, after the utilisation of the pre-Grouping Tax Loss of either Company B or Company C, there will not be sufficient Taxable Income in the Tax Group to utilise all of the pre-Grouping Tax Loss of the other company.

For instance, if the Tax Group chooses to utilise all the pre-Grouping Tax Losses of Company B (i.e. AED 1 million), only AED 0.5 million of the pre-Grouping Tax Losses of Company C can be utilised. Alternatively, the Tax Group could utilise all the pre- Grouping Tax Losses of Company C (AED 0.8 million). After that, only AED 0.7 million of the pre-Grouping Tax Losses of Company B can be utilised against the Taxable Income of the Tax Group.

The Parent Company of the Tax Group would decide which pre-Grouping Tax Losses to utilise.

After utilisation of the pre-Grouping Tax Losses, the Tax Group has exhausted its capacity to utilise other Tax Losses. Therefore, the Tax Group is not able to utilise its 2025 Tax Loss of AED 0.3 million. Similarly, the Tax Group is not able to utilise any Tax Losses transferred to it under Article 38 of the Corporate Tax Law.

10.2.3. Utilisation of restricted Tax Group Tax Losses

Restricted Tax Group Tax Losses cannot be utilised against Taxable Income attributable to Subsidiaries which joined the Tax Group after the Tax Losses arose.253 If there are several Subsidiaries to which this applies, it is possible to limit this restriction to the net amount of Taxable Income attributable to such Subsidiaries.


253 Article 42(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Tax Group Tax Losses. The Tax Losses of Company C become pre-Grouping Tax Losses.

In 2025, the Taxable Income of the Tax Group is AED 1.6 million. This Taxable Income was attributed as follows:
* Company A: Taxable Income of AED 1.1 million
* Company B: Taxable Income is nil
* Company C: Taxable Income of AED 1 million
* Company D: a loss of AED 0.5 million

As pre-Grouping Tax Losses would need to be utilised before restricted Tax Group Tax Losses could be utilised, it should first be assessed to what extent the pre- Grouping Tax Losses of Company C can be utilised. As the Taxable Income of the new Tax Group is AED 1.6 million, the Tax Group has a capacity to utilise Tax Losses of AED 1.2 million (i.e. 75% of the Taxable Income of the Group), which is sufficient capacity to utilise the pre-Grouping Tax Losses. The Taxable Income attributable to Company C (i.e. AED 1 million) is also sufficient to utilise the pre- Grouping Tax Losses. Therefore, the Tax Group would utilise the AED 0.6 million of pre-Grouping Tax Losses of Company C before utilising any restricted Tax Group Tax Losses resulting in Taxable Income of Company C of AED 0.5 million.

Utilisation of the restricted Tax Group Tax Loss of AED 1 million is limited to the lower of:
* 75% of the Taxable Income attributable to Company A and Company B (i.e. 75% of AED 1.1 million) and
* the remaining portion of the 75% of the Taxable Income of the Tax Group (i.e. AED 0.6 million)

Thus, AED 0.6 million of the restricted Tax Group Tax Loss can be utilised, leaving an amount of AED 0.4 million to be carried forward to the subsequent Tax Period.

10.2.4. Interaction with Business Restructuring Relief

If a Business has been transferred to a Taxable Person under Article 27 (Business Restructuring Relief) and the transferor had unutilised Tax Losses, such Tax Losses can become Tax Losses of the transferee if the conditions are met.254 In such a case, the Tax Losses are treated the same as any other Tax Losses of the transferee and all the guidance and examples in this guide should be equally applicable to such a Tax Loss.


254 Article 27(3)(d) and 27(5) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 5 of Ministerial Decision No. 133 of 2023.


If the transferee subsequently joins a Tax Group after receiving losses on a transfer to which Business Restructuring Relief applied, the Tax Loss (if unutilised) would become a pre-Grouping Tax Loss.

If the transferee is already in a Tax Group (whether as Parent Company or Subsidiary), the Tax Losses become Tax Losses of the Tax Group. If another Subsidiary subsequently joins the Tax Group, the Tax Losses could become restricted Tax Group Tax Losses.

If the Parent Company or a Subsidiary transfers its entire Business to another member of the Tax Group and the transferor ceases to exist as a result of that transfer, it would remain a member of the Tax Group until such date it ceases to exist.255 In case a Subsidiary ceases to exist in this way, any pre-Grouping Tax Losses would be foregone.256 In case a Parent Company ceases to exist in this way, the Tax Losses of the Tax Group would remain with the Tax Group, provided the Tax Group continues to exist.257 If the Tax Group ceases to exist as a result of such transfer,258 any Tax Losses of the Tax Group would be foregone.259

10.3. Impact of changes in the members of a Tax Group on Tax Losses

If a Subsidiary joins a Tax Group, its existing unutilised Tax Losses become pre- Grouping Tax Losses that can only be offset against the Taxable Income of the Tax Group insofar as this income is attributable to the relevant Subsidiary. 260 Existing unutilised Tax Losses of an existing Tax Group cannot be used against the Taxable Income of a Subsidiary that has joined the existing Tax Group after the Tax Losses were incurred ("restricted Tax Group Tax Losses").

If a Subsidiary leaves a Tax Group which continues to exist, any Tax Losses of the Tax Group continue to be Tax Losses of the Tax Group.261 This is the case even if the Tax Losses could be attributed to the Subsidiary that has left the Tax Group. As an exception, any pre-Grouping Tax Losses will stay with the relevant Subsidiary and become Tax Losses of that company.262




255 Article 10(1) of the Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
256 Article 42(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.
257 Article 42(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
258 Article 10(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
259 Article 42(7)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
260 Article 42(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. 261 Article 42(6) of the Corporate Tax Law. 262 Article 42(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.


If a Tax Group ceases to exist and the Parent Company continues to be a Taxable Person, any Tax Losses of a Tax Group will become Tax Losses of the Parent Company.263 If the Parent Company ceases to exist or it ceases to be a Taxable Person, the Tax Losses of the Tax Group will not be available for utilisation except if the Parent Company is replaced where Article 40(12) of the Corporate Tax Law applies.264 Any pre-Grouping Tax Losses will become Tax Losses of the relevant Subsidiary and will be available for future utilisation, if the Subsidiary continues to exist.

Where Article 40(12) of the Corporate Tax Law applies, a Parent Company can be replaced by another Parent Company without discontinuing the Tax Group. In this case, any unutilised Tax Losses of the Tax Group continue to be available as Tax Losses of the Tax Group.265

10.4. Transfer of Tax Losses

The Tax Group is treated as a single Taxable Person.266 If the conditions of Article 38 of the Corporate Tax Law are met, the Tax Group can transfer a Tax Loss to another Taxable Person or another Tax Group. Similarly, if another Taxable Person or another Tax Group meets the relevant conditions under Article 38 of the Corporate Tax Law, it can transfer a Tax Loss to the Tax Group.

A Tax Loss can be transferred from one Taxable Person to another Taxable Person only upon fulfilment of certain conditions. 267 One of the conditions is that either Taxable Person has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% in the other, or a third Person has a direct or indirect ownership interest of at least 75% in each of them. 268 As explained in Section 8.3.2, in case of Tax Groups, this condition is determined by aggregating all ownership interests held by members of the Tax Group.

If a Tax Loss is transferred to the Tax Group, this can only be utilised after utilisation of any pre-Grouping Tax Losses, restricted Tax Group Tax Losses and other Tax Losses of the Tax Group.269







263 Article 42(7)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
264 Article 42(7)(b) and Article 42(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.
265 Article 42(8) of the Corporate Tax Law. 266 Article 40(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 267 Article 38(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 268 Article 38(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. 269 Article 37(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.


11. Interest Deduction Limitation Rule

11.1. Application of General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule to Tax Groups

Net Interest Expenditure is the Interest expenditure amount in excess of the Interest income amount as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.270 Where a Taxable Person's Net Interest Expenditure exceeds AED 12 million for the relevant Tax Period, Net Interest Expenditure shall be deductible up to the greater of:
* 30% of EBITDA (earnings before the deduction of Interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) for a Tax Period, calculated as the Taxable Income for the Tax Period with adjustments for:271
- Net Interest Expenditure for the relevant Tax Period,
- depreciation and amortisation expenditure taken into account in determining the Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period, and
- any Interest income or expenditure relating to historical financial assets or liabilities held prior to 9 December 2022.
and,
* the de minimis threshold of AED 12 million.272

The amount of Net Interest Expenditure disallowed may be carried forward and deducted in the subsequent 10 Tax Periods in the order in which the amount was incurred.273

The above restriction is called the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule.274 The restriction does not apply to Banks, Insurance Providers and in certain other cases.275

A Tax Group is treated as a single Taxable Person.276 This means this restriction and the carry forward is calculated at the level of the Tax Group. Even if a member of the Tax Group has insufficient EBITDA to utilise its Net Interest Expenditure, the 30% restriction on Interest deduction under the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule does not apply provided the Tax Group as a whole has sufficient EBITDA to utilise the Tax Group's Net Interest Expenditure. However, if the Tax Group has combined Net Interest Expenditure exceeding AED 12 million and the Tax Group has insufficient EBITDA to utilise its Net Interest Expenditure, the 30% restriction on Interest deduction



270 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
271 Article 30(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 9(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
272 Article 8 of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
273 Article 30(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
274 Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law.
275 Article 30(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.


will apply, even if there are members of the Tax Group that on a standalone basis would have had sufficient EBITDA to utilise their Net Interest Expenditure.

11.2. Impact of changes in the members of a Tax Group on unutilised Net Interest Expenditure

11.2.1. General

If the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule applies to a Tax Group, the resulting disallowed Net Interest Expenditure carried forward may be utilised in the subsequent 10 Tax Periods of the Tax Group. This Net Interest Expenditure carried forward is an attribute of the Tax Group as represented by the Parent Company and not an attribute of any member of the Tax Group. If a Subsidiary subsequently leaves the Tax Group the unutilised Net Interest Expenditure shall remain with the Tax Group, with the exception of any pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure of that Subsidiary.277 If a Tax Group ceases to exist and the Parent Company continues to be a Taxable Person, any unutilised Net Interest Expenditure of the Tax Group shall remain with the Parent Company as the representative of the Tax Group.278 If the Parent Company ceases to exist without a universal successor or ceases to be a Taxable Person, any unutilised Net Interest Expenditure of the Tax Group will be foregone.279

However, if the Parent Company merges with another Taxable Person and ceases to exist as a result, any unutilised Net Interest Expenditure of the Tax Group would continue to be available where the legal successor is the new Parent Company of the Tax Group that continues to exist.280

Attribution of Taxable Income (see Section 9) is required where a member of the Tax Group has unutilised pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure carried forward.281 Similar to the restriction of pre-Grouping Tax Losses282 (see Section 10.2), pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure can only be utilised against the Taxable Income that is attributable to that Subsidiary.283

This means utilisation of pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure would be possible to the extent both:284



277 Article 12(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023. 278 Article 12(3)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023. 279 Article 12(3)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023. 280 Article 12(4) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
281 Article 8(1)(d) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.
282 Article 42(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
283 Article 12(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.
284 Article 12(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 126 of 2023.


* current Net Interest Expenditure of the Tax Group is less than 30% of the Tax Group's EBITDA (or AED 12 million, if higher); and
* based on attribution of the Taxable Income, the relevant Subsidiary has sufficient Taxable Income.

Where a new Subsidiary joins an existing Tax Group, the restrictions on utilisation of Tax Losses under Article 42(4) of the Corporate Tax Law do not apply to Net Interest Expenditure. Hence, carried forward Net Interest Expenditure of the existing Tax Group can be utilised against future Tax Group EBITDA after the utilisation of current year Net Interest Expense of that Tax Group. Similarly, carried forward Net Interest Expenditure of a Taxable Person that subsequently becomes a Parent Company of a Tax Group can be utilised against future Taxable Income of the Tax Group after the utilisation of current year Net Interest Expense of that Tax Group.285

11.2.2. Order of utilisation of unutilised Net Interest Expenditure

If a Tax Group has unutilised Net Interest Expenditure and it also has members with pre-Grouping unutilized Net Interest Expenditure, the Net Interest Expenditure should be utilised in the order in which the amount was incurred.286 Where several unutilised Net Interest Expenditures qualify for utilisation and they arose from Tax Periods with the same end date, there is no requirement to follow when the underlying Interest was incurred and the Taxable Person can choose the order in which Net Interest Expenditure is utilised. This is because the Net Interest Expenditure is treated as being incurred at the end of the Tax Period for the purpose of Article 30(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.



285 Articles 30(1), 30(4) and 40(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
286 Article 30(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Company
Tax Period 2024
Tax Period 2025
Total
Company B
10 million
5 million
15 million
Company C
5 million
5 million
10 million
Company D
7 million
5 million
12 million

The utilisation of any of the unutilised Net Interest Expenditure requires sufficient capacity at Tax Group level. In addition, utilisation of Company B's, Company C's and Company D's pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditures, also require sufficient Taxable Income at the level of the relevant Subsidiary.

In 2026, the Tax Group's Taxable Income is AED 42 million which can be attributed as follows:
* Company A: AED 2 million.
* Company B: AED 30 million.
* Company C: AED 14 million.
* Company D: a loss of AED 4 million.

Utilisation of Net Interest Expenditure of Tax Period 2026:


Description
Amount (in AED)
Tax Group's EBITDA for Tax Period 2026
200 million
Maximum Net Interest Expenditure deductible (30% of 200 million)
60 million
Less: Net Interest Expenditure of the Group for the Tax Period 2026
(38 million)
Balance capacity of the Tax Group to utilise pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure of the Subsidiaries
22 million

Capacity to utilise pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure at the level of the respective Subsidiary:


Subsidiary
  Attributable Taxable Income
Pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure
Capacity to utilised pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure
Company B
30 million
15 million
15 million
Company C
14 million
10 million
10 million
Company D
(4 million)
12 million
   0 million (since Company D is in loss)

Utilisation of pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure:
The Tax Group could utilise up to AED 15 million of Company B's pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure and AED 10 million of Company C's pre-Grouping Net Interest Expenditure. However, as the Tax Group can only utilise up to AED 22 million of




11.2.3. Interaction with Business Restructuring Relief

If a Business has been transferred to a Taxable Person and the conditions of Article
27 of the Corporate Tax Law are met, the transferor can elect for Business Restructuring Relief to apply in respect of gains or losses that arise from the transfer of Business. The relief does not extend to unutilised Net Interest Expenditure. Therefore, the utilisation of Net Interest Expenditure is unaffected by the application of Business Restructuring Relief, meaning that unutilised Net Interest Expenditure will remain with the Taxable Person that incurred it, which may be able to utilise it if it continues to exist. As a result, the other comments in this Section would apply equally to Taxable Persons that were subject to Business Restructuring Relief.

If the Parent Company or a Subsidiary ceases to exist as a result of a Business restructuring under which it transfers all its assets and liabilities to another member of the Tax Group, it would remain a member of the Tax Group until such date as it ceases to exist. 287 In case a Subsidiary ceases to exist in this way, any unutilised pre- Grouping Net Interest Expenditure tied to the Subsidiary would be foregone. In case a Parent Company ceases to exist in this way, any unutilised Net Interest Expenditure of the Parent Company and the Tax Group would be foregone, unless the Tax Group continues to exist without discontinuation.288



287 Article 10(1) of Ministerial Decision No.125 of 2023.
288 Article 40(12) of the Corporate Tax Law.


11.3. Impact of a Tax Group that includes Banks and Insurance Providers

The General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule does not apply to Banks, Insurance Providers and certain other specified Taxable Persons.289 Where a member of a Tax Group is a Bank or Insurance Provider, any income or expenditure of such member shall be disregarded for the calculation of total Net Interest Expenditure and EBITDA of the Tax Group.290


12. Foreign Tax Credits and Foreign Permanent Establishment
12.1. Foreign Tax Credit

12.1.1. Impact of Tax Group on Foreign Tax Credit

Where a Taxable Person's foreign source income is subject to UAE Corporate Tax, such Person can claim a Foreign Tax Credit by deducting taxes paid under the tax laws of a foreign jurisdiction from the Corporate Tax due in the UAE on the same income.291

The Foreign Tax Credit cannot exceed the amount of UAE Corporate Tax due on the relevant foreign income.292 Hence, the amount of Foreign Tax Credit is the lower of:
* The actual amount of tax paid on foreign source income in the foreign jurisdiction and
* The amount of Corporate Tax due on the foreign source income as determined for the purposes of UAE Corporate Tax Law after deducting economically linked expenditure from the relevant income.

The unutilised foreign taxes (if any) cannot be carried forward or carried back and shall be forfeited.293

Where a member of a Tax Group has foreign source income for which a Foreign Tax Credit can be claimed, the Taxable Income attributable to that member of the Tax Group shall be calculated separately on a standalone basis. 294 Accordingly, the amount of Foreign Tax Credit should be calculated at the level of the member of the Tax Group that has received the relevant foreign source income. The amount of Foreign Tax Credit due to a member of a Tax Group reduces the Corporate Tax due for the Tax Group.
In the case of Tax Groups, Corporate Tax due on the relevant foreign income is calculated as X *Z where:
Y
* X= The relevant foreign income that has been included in the Taxable Income of the Tax Group,
* Y= The total Taxable Income attributable to the relevant member of the Tax Group,


291 Articles 1 and 47(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
292 Article 47(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
293 Article 47(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
294 Article 8(1)(b) of Ministerial Decision No. 125 of 2023.


* Z= The Corporate Tax attributable to the relevant member on its total Taxable
Income determined as A *C where:
B
A= Corporate Tax due by the Tax Group, B= Taxable Income of the Tax Group,
C= Taxable Income attributable to the relevant member of the Tax Group.

In determining the economically linked costs in respect of the foreign income earned by the member of the Tax Group, any economically linked costs resulting from transactions with other members of the Tax Group should generally also be taken into account.

12.2. Foreign Permanent Establishments

12.2.1. Application of Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption to Tax Groups

A Taxable Person may elect to exclude the net income of its Foreign Permanent Establishments from its Taxable Income.295 In the case of a Tax Group, the Parent Company is responsible for making an election and if an election is made, it is applicable to all Foreign Permanent Establishments held by the Tax Group.296 If a new Subsidiary joins the Tax Group after an election is made, the election also applies to any Foreign Permanent Establishments held by such Subsidiary (regardless of whether such Subsidiary had made an election). If no election is made by the Parent Company, the exemption does not apply to any of the Tax Group's Foreign Permanent Establishments. If a new Subsidiary joins a Tax Group which has not made an election, no election applies to the Foreign Permanent Establishments held by that Subsidiary (even if the new Subsidiary had made an election in previous years).

12.2.2. Calculation of Taxable Income of Foreign Permanent Establishment

The loss or income attributable to Foreign Permanent Establishments is calculated as if the Foreign Permanent Establishments were Resident Persons.297 As the Foreign Permanent Establishment is legally the same person as its head office, all income and expenditure of the entity will need to be allocated between head office and Permanent Establishment. The attribution of income and expenditure to a Foreign Permanent Establishment must be performed in accordance with internationally accepted profit attribution methods such as the Authorised OECD Approach and the relevant provisions of the Corporate Tax Law for the determination of Taxable Income. This

295 Article 24 of the Corporate Tax Law.
296 Article 53(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.
297 Article 24(2)(a) and 24(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


requires the application of the arm's length standard with regards to any transactions between the Taxable Person and its Foreign Permanent Establishment as if the Permanent Establishment was a separate and independent Person.298

If the head office is included in a Tax Group, transactions between the Foreign Permanent Establishment and other members of the Tax Group are not included in the overall result of the Tax Group.299 However, the profits of Foreign Permanent Establishments should be determined as if the Tax Group did not exist, meaning that the transactions between a Foreign Permanent Establishment and other members of the Tax Group are taken into account to the extent consistent with the arm's length standard.

If several members of a Tax Group have a Foreign Permanent Establishment in the same country, the income or loss of these Foreign Permanent Establishments is calculated separately before being aggregated with all Foreign Permanent Establishments.300 This approach avoids the need to eliminate and then reintroduce transactions between Foreign Permanent Establishments and head offices of other Foreign Permanent Establishments.































298 Article 24(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 299 Article 40(4) of the Corporate Tax Law. 300 Article 24(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


13. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
January 2024
* First version

	













Non-Resident Persons

Corporate Tax Guide | CTGNRP1

October 2023


Contents
1. Glossary	3
2. Introduction	6
2.1. Overview	6
2.2. Purpose of this guide	6
2.3. Who should read this guide?	6
2.4. How to use this guide	6
2.5. Legislative references	7
2.6. Status of this guide	8
3. Definition of a Non-Resident Person	9
4. When is a Non-Resident Person required to register for Corporate Tax purposes?	11
4.1. Juridical persons	11
4.2. Natural persons	12
5. What income of a Non-Resident Person is subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE?	13
5.1. Income attributable to a Permanent Establishment or nexus	13
5.2. Business or Business Activities of a non-resident natural person that are subject to Corporate Tax	14
5.3. State Sourced Income	14
5.4. State Sourced Income and Withholding Tax	15
5.5. State Sourced Income and Permanent Establishment	15
5.6. State Sourced Income and nexus	15
5.7. Small business relief: unavailable to a Non-Resident Person	15
5.8. Exempt income from operating aircraft or ships in international transportation	15
5.9. Interaction of the Corporate Tax Law with Double Taxation Agreements	16
6. Other UAE Corporate Tax requirements for a Non- Resident Person	19
6.1. Standalone Financial Statements and attribution	19
6.2. Tax Return submission	19
6.3. Record keeping	20
7. Permanent Establishment	21
7.1. Overview	21
7.2. Fixed place Permanent Establishment	21

7.2.1. Essential factors determining the existence of a fixed place Permanent Establishment	21
7.2.2. Immaterial factors for determining the existence of a fixed place Permanent Establishment	22
7.2.3. Specific inclusions to a fixed place Permanent Establishment	25
7.2.4. Preparatory or auxiliary activities	35
7.3. Agency Permanent Establishment	44
7.3.1. When does a Person create an agency Permanent Establishment for a Non- Resident Person?	45
7.3.2. Independent agents: When does a Person not create an agency Permanent Establishment for a Non-Resident Person?	48
8. State Sourced Income	51
9. Nexus in the UAE	55
10. Annexures	57
10.1. Annexure 1 - Relevant extract of Double Taxation Agreement between the UAE and Country I	57
10.2. Annexure 2 - Relevant extract of Double Taxation Agreement between the UAE and Country U	58
11. Updates and Amendments	60

1. Glossary

Authority: Federal Tax Authority.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or activities, conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Cash Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income and expenditure when cash payments are received and paid.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses.

Double Taxation Agreement: An international agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established, or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

Immovable Property: Means any of the following:
a. Any area of land over which rights or interests or services can be created.


b. Any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed.
c. Any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.

Interest: Any amount accrued or paid for the use of money or credit, including discounts, premiums and profit paid in respect of an Islamic financial instrument and other payments economically equivalent to interest, and any other amounts incurred in connection with the raising of finance, excluding payments of the principal amount.

Licence: A document issued by a Licensing Authority under which a Business or Business Activity is conducted in the UAE.

Licensing Authority: The competent authority concerned with licensing or authorising a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Minister: Minister of Finance.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.

Personal Investment: Investment activity that a natural person conducts for their personal account that is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022 Issuing the Commercial Transactions Law.

Qualifying Free Zone Person: A Free Zone Person that meets the conditions of Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law and is subject to Corporate Tax under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Income: Any income derived by a Qualifying Free Zone Person that is subject to Corporate Tax at the rate specified in Article 3(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Real Estate Investment: Any investment activity conducted by a natural person related to, directly or indirectly, the sale, leasing, sub-leasing, and renting of land or real estate property in the UAE that is not conducted, or does not require to be conducted through a Licence from a Licensing Authority.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

State Sourced Income: Income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE as specified in Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Registration: A procedure under which a Person registers for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Registration Number: A unique number issued by the FTA to each Person who is registered for Corporate Tax purposes in the UAE.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

Turnover: The gross amount of income derived during a Gregorian calendar year.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.

Withholding Tax: Corporate Tax to be withheld from State Sourced Income in accordance with Article 45 of the Corporate Tax Law.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance to natural persons or juridical persons who are not considered Resident Persons for Corporate Tax purposes and who derive income from the UAE, to help them understand whether they are subject to tax in the UAE as a Non-Resident Person. It provides readers with an overview of:

- Who is a Non-Resident Person for the purposes of Corporate Tax in the UAE;
- What are the Corporate Tax obligations on a Non-Resident Person; and
- What income of a Non-Resident Person is subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE.

2.3. Who should read this guide?

The guide should be read by any natural person or juridical person who is not considered to be a Resident Person as per the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law and is deriving any income from the UAE. It is intended to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.


In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Corporate Tax Law apply to Non-Resident Persons. The examples in the guide:

- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:

* Federal Decree-Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as "Tax Procedures Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Cabinet Decision No. 85 of 2022 on Determination of Tax Residency is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 85 of 2022";
* Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 on Specifying the Categories of Businesses or Business Activities Conducted by a Resident or Non-Resident Natural Person that are Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023";
* Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023 on Determination of a Non-Resident Person's Nexus in the State for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 27 of 2023 on Implementation of Certain Provisions of Cabinet Decision No. 85 of 2022 on Determination of Tax Residency is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 27 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023 Concerning Exception from Tax Registration for the Purpose of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses as "Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 83 of 2023 on the Determination of the Conditions under which the Presence of a Natural Person in the State would not Create a Permanent Establishment for a Non-Resident Person for the Purposes of Federal


Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 83 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023"; and
* Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023 on Unincorporated Partnership, Foreign Partnership and Family Foundation for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 127 of 2023".

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the tax implications for a Non-Resident Person as per the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax for Non-Resident Persons. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. Definition of a Non-Resident Person

Under the Corporate Tax Law, a Non-Resident Person is defined as a Person who is not a Resident Person. It is therefore necessary to first consider whether a Person is a Resident Person (in which case this guide will not be applicable).

A Person is a Resident Person in the following cases:

* A natural person if they conduct a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.
* A juridical person if it is incorporated or otherwise established or recognised in the UAE or is incorporated or otherwise established or recognised outside the UAE but effectively managed and controlled in the UAE.

Therefore, a Non-Resident Person is:

* A natural person who is not a Resident Person but:

- has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE and has a Turnover attributable to their Permanent Establishment that exceeds AED 1,000,000 within a Gregorian calendar year; or
- derives State Sourced Income, (i.e. income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE) (see Section 8).

* A juridical person that is incorporated or formed outside the UAE and not effectively managed and controlled in the UAE to the extent they:1

- have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE (i.e. a fixed place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE) (see Section 7);
- derive State Sourced Income, (i.e. income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE) (see Section 8); or
- have a nexus in the UAE (see Section 9).

Note that the concept of nexus is applicable only to a Non-Resident Person that is a juridical person (and not a natural person). A Non-Resident Person that is a juridical person can have a nexus in the UAE if they earn income from Immovable Property in the UAE.2

It is important to note that not all non-resident persons are subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE. However, the Corporate Tax Law defines the term "Non-Resident Person" to mean a taxable non-resident person. Therefore, the term "Non-Resident Person" is



1 Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
2 Article 2 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.


used throughout this Guide to mean a non-resident person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE unless specifically stated otherwise.


4. When is a Non-Resident Person required to register for Corporate Tax purposes?
4.1. Juridical persons

A Non-Resident Person that is a juridical person is required to register for Corporate Tax purposes and obtain a Tax Registration Number when the Non-Resident Person is subject to Corporate Tax due to having:3

1. a Permanent Establishment in the UAE (see Section 7);4 or
2. a nexus in the UAE (see Section 9).5

As soon as the Person determines that their activities will trigger a Permanent Establishment in the UAE or that they have a nexus in the UAE, they are considered a Non-Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law and should register with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes to avoid any compliance delays that may result in administrative penalties.

A Non-Resident Person that is a juridical person, derives only State Sourced Income (see Section 8) and does neither have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE nor a nexus in the UAE, shall not register for Corporate Tax purposes.6





3 Article 51(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
4 Article 11(4)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
5 Article 11(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
6 Article 2(1)(e) of Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023 and Article 4 of Cabinet Decision 56 of 2023.
7 Article 2(1)(e) of Ministerial Decision No. 43 of 2023.






4.2. Natural persons

A Non-Resident Person that is natural person is required to register for Corporate Tax purposes and obtain a Tax Registration Number when the Non-Resident Person has a Turnover attributable to their Permanent Establishment in the UAE that exceeds AED 1,000,000 within a Gregorian calendar year.











8 Article 45(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
9 Article 2 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
10 Article 4 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.


5. What income of a Non-Resident Person is subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE?
5.1. Income attributable to a Permanent Establishment or nexus

Taxable Income that is attributable to a Non-Resident Person's Permanent Establishment or nexus in the UAE is subject to Corporate Tax.11

Corporate Tax is imposed on the Taxable Income of a Non-Resident Person at the same rate as for a Resident Person, as follows:12

* 0% (zero percent) on the first AED 375,000 of Taxable Income.
* 9% (nine percent) on the amount that exceeds AED 375,000 of Taxable Income.

In the event that the Non-Resident Person is a Qualifying Free Zone Person (for example, a branch operating in a Free Zone), then Corporate Tax shall be imposed at the following rates:13

* 0% (zero percent) on Qualifying Income.
* 9% (nine percent) on Taxable Income that is not Qualifying Income.

Taxable Income attributable to a Non-Resident Person's Permanent Establishment can be derived from both inside and outside the UAE (see Section 7.1 for more details on the attribution of profits to a Permanent Establishment).

Income attributable to a Person's nexus is any income derived by a Non-Resident Person that is a juridical person from Immovable Property in the UAE.14 (see Section 9).

Taxable Income is calculated for a Tax Period on the basis of adequate, standalone Financial Statements prepared in accordance with accounting standards accepted in the UAE, adjusted as per the provisions of Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.









11 Articles 12(3)(a) and 12(3)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
12 Article 3(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
13 Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
14 Article (2)(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.


5.2. Business or Business Activities of a non-resident natural person that are subject to Corporate Tax

Businesses or Business Activities of a non-resident natural person would be subject to Corporate Tax only if the gross amount of Turnover derived through conducting the Businesses or Business Activities (for example, through a Permanent Establishment) in the UAE, exceeds AED 1,000,000 during a Gregorian calendar year.15

Furthermore, the following are not considered as Businesses or Business Activities for a natural person, and, therefore, are not subject to Corporate Tax for a non- resident natural person and are not taken into account in the determination of a natural person's Turnover:16

* wages, salary or any other amounts received by a natural person from their employer by virtue of their employment contract, whether in cash or in kind;
* any return on Personal Investments, made in the relevant person's personal capacity, not through a Licence from a Licensing Authority, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022 Issuing the Commercial Transactions Law; and
* any income from a Real Estate Investment not conducted through a Licence from a Licensing Authority.

5.3. State Sourced Income

Income is considered State Sourced Income in any of the following instances:17

* Where it is derived from a Resident Person.
* Where it is derived from a Non-Resident Person and the income is paid or accrued in connection with, and attributable to, a Permanent Establishment of that Non- Resident Person in the UAE.
* Where it is otherwise accrued in or derived from activities performed, assets located, capital invested, rights used, services performed or benefitted from in the UAE.

Each of the above situations is considered in further detail in Section 8.





15 Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
16 Article 2(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
17 Article 13(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.


5.4. State Sourced Income and Withholding Tax

Certain State Sourced Income, derived by a Non-Resident Person, that is not attributable to a Permanent Establishment, may be subject to Withholding Tax. The current Withholding Tax rate is 0%.18

5.5. State Sourced Income and Permanent Establishment

State Sourced Income and income attributable to a Permanent Establishment in the UAE are not mutually exclusive. State Sourced Income can be attributable to a Permanent Establishment and, therefore, Corporate Tax is imposed on State Sourced Income that is attributable to a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

5.6. State Sourced Income and nexus

State Sourced Income and income from a nexus in the UAE are not mutually exclusive. State Sourced Income includes income from a nexus and, therefore, Corporate Tax is imposed on State Sourced Income that is related to a nexus in the UAE.

5.7. Small business relief: unavailable to a Non-Resident Person

As per the Corporate Tax Law, only a Resident Person can elect for small business relief.19 Therefore, Non-Resident Persons are not eligible for the small business relief. However, this may be affected by applicable Double Taxation Agreements.

5.8. Exempt	income	from	operating	aircraft	or	ships	in	international transportation

Income derived by a Non-Resident Person from operating aircraft or ships in international transportation is exempt (i.e. not subject to Corporate Tax) as long as the Non-Resident Person is in the Business of undertaking any of the following activities:20

* International transport of passengers, livestock, mail, parcels, merchandise or goods by air or by sea.
* Leasing or chartering aircrafts or ships used in international transportation.
* Leasing of equipment which are integral to the seaworthiness of ships or the airworthiness of aircrafts used in international transportation.

18 Article 45(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 19 Article 21(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 20 Article 25(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.



This exemption only applies if similar provisions are applied to a UAE Resident Person conducting the same activities in the country or territory in which the Non- Resident Person is resident.21


5.9. Interaction of the Corporate Tax Law with Double Taxation Agreements

A Non-Resident Person (juridical or natural person) who is subject to tax under the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law may be entitled to seek relief under a relevant Double Taxation Agreement. This guide only addresses the tax implications for Non- Residents under UAE Corporate Tax Law, i.e. without consideration of the potential implications of a Double Taxation Agreement.

Non-Resident Persons should assess the potential implications of a Double Taxation Agreement, taking into account the relevant facts and circumstances, read with Cabinet Decision No. 85 of 2022 and Ministerial Decision No. 27 of 2023, where relevant.

A Double Taxation Agreement that is in force in the UAE, takes precedence over the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law to the extent there is any inconsistency.22 Therefore, meeting the definition of a Resident Person under the UAE Corporate Tax Law, does not automatically mean that a Resident Person will be a tax resident in the UAE where a Double Taxation Agreement applies. Tax residence may be assigned to the UAE or to another jurisdiction under a Double Taxation Agreement depending on the facts and circumstances and the content of the relevant agreement.

21 Article 25(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
22 Article 66 of the Corporate Tax Law.







23 Article 11(3)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
24 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
25 Article 2(3) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
26 Article 12(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
27 Article 11(3)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.





6. Other	UAE	Corporate	Tax	requirements	for	a	Non- Resident Person
6.1. Standalone Financial Statements and attribution

A Non-Resident Person that is required to register for Corporate Tax purposes is subject to the same rules as a Resident Person with regards to their reporting requirements. The Taxable Income for a Non-Resident Person is to be determined on the basis of adequate and standalone Financial Statements prepared for financial reporting purposes in accordance with accounting standards accepted in the UAE (which are International Financial Reporting Standards "IFRS").28 Notwithstanding this, a Taxable Person may calculate its Taxable Income on the basis of Financial Statements prepared using the Cash Basis of Accounting, if specific conditions are met.29

A Non-Resident Person must determine its Taxable Income which is attributable to a Permanent Establishment or nexus in the UAE. Attribution of income and expenditure to a Permanent Establishment should be based on the arm's length principle and internationally accepted attribution methodologies as a Non-Resident Person and its Permanent Establishment are considered to be Related Parties.30

6.2. Tax Return submission

On the same basis as a Resident Person, a Non-Resident Person must file a Tax Return with the FTA and settle the Corporate Tax payable, no later than (9) nine months from the end of the relevant Tax Period.31

A Tax Period, the period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed for the purposes of Corporate Tax, is normally the Gregorian calendar year, or the (12) twelve-month period for which the Taxable Person prepares Financial Statements.32 However, in specific cases, a Taxable Person can make an application to the FTA to extend a current period to a maximum of 18 months or to shorten the subsequent period to between 6 and 12 months.33





28 Article 20(1) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 4(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
29 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
30 Article 35(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.
31 Article 48 and Article 53(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
32 Article 57 of the Corporate Tax Law.
33 Article 58 of the Corporate Tax Law.


6.3. Record keeping

Notwithstanding the provisions of the Tax Procedures Law, a Non-Resident Person must maintain all records and documents for a period of 7 years following the end of the Tax Period to which they relate.34



















































34 Article 56 of the Corporate Tax Law.


7. Permanent Establishment

7.1. Overview

Broadly, a Permanent Establishment of a Non-Resident Person can arise in the UAE where:35

* there is a fixed or permanent place in the UAE through which the Non-Resident Person wholly or partly conducts its Business (see Section 7.2);
* a Person habitually exercises an authority to conduct a Business or Business Activity in the UAE on behalf of the Non-Resident Person (see Section 7.3); or
* a Non-Resident Person has any other form of nexus in the UAE as may be specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet.

It is important to note that the relevant provisions of any Double Taxation Agreement between the country of tax residence of the Non-Resident Person and the UAE must be considered in the assessment of whether a specific case constitutes a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

Different forms of Permanent Establishments are discussed in the following Sections.

7.2. Fixed place Permanent Establishment

7.2.1. Essential factors determining the existence of a fixed place Permanent Establishment

A Non-Resident Person is considered to have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE where it has a fixed or permanent place in the UAE through which the Business of the Non-Resident Person, or any part thereof, is conducted.36

There are certain essential factors and guiding principles that must be tested to determine whether a Non-Resident Person has a fixed place Permanent Establishment in the UAE:

* The Non-Resident Person must have a "place of Business" in the UAE which could include a facility, such as an office, a work location, premises or, in certain instances, machinery or equipment, which is used by the Non-Resident Person to carry on its Business in the UAE on a regular/recurrent basis (hereinafter referred to as "place of Business test").

35 Article 14(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
36 Article 14(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* The place of Business must be "fixed" i.e. it must be established at a distinct place with a certain degree of "permanence" (hereinafter referred to as "permanence test"). A case-by-case evaluation needs to be made considering all relevant factors but an aggregate period of more than 6 months (even if not continuous), in the relevant 12 consecutive months, will typically indicate permanence.
* The place of Business must be at the disposal of the Non-Resident Person. The mere presence at a particular location does not necessarily mean that the location is at its "disposal". The Non-Resident Person must have the right or effective power to use such place of Business (hereinafter referred to as the "disposal test").
* The activities performed by the Non-Resident Person at such place of Business must be core income-generating activities and not of a preparatory or auxiliary nature (hereinafter referred to as the "Business Activity test").

Typically, a Non-Resident Person will have a fixed place Permanent Establishment in the UAE only if its operations satisfy all the above factors and having regard to all relevant facts and circumstances.

7.2.2. Immaterial factors for determining the existence of a fixed place Permanent Establishment

Determining whether a Non-Resident Person has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE is a fact and context specific exercise that needs to be evaluated on a case-by- case basis. However, the following (illustrative) factors would typically be immaterial,
i.e. should not influence the evaluation:

* Ownership of the Non-Resident's place of Business is immaterial. Even rented premises can constitute a Permanent Establishment.
* The formal legal right to use a particular place is not required if the Non-Resident Person has effective control over such location i.e. it is at its disposal to conduct its Business Activities. For example, a Permanent Establishment can exist where a Non-Resident Person illegally occupies a certain location to conduct its Business Activities.
* An exclusive right over a place is immaterial. A Non-Resident Person can have a Permanent Establishment even in cases where it conducts its Business through a specific location that belongs to another Person or that is used by several other Persons to perform their own Business Activities at the common location.

By way of illustrative examples, the table below addresses some of the issues and questions that may arise regarding whether a Non-Resident has a fixed place Permanent Establishment in the UAE:


Issue
Examples




Should the place of Business be physically "fixed"?
* Company F (a juridical person incorporated in and a tax resident of Country F) provides a floating restaurant experience to its customers in the UAE which is attached to a hot air balloon and supported by a crane which makes the restaurant mobile.
* In this case, such place would constitute a fixed place Permanent Establishment for Company F even if it is not actually "fixed" to the soil as there is a clear link between the place of Business and a specific geographical location in the UAE.







What is the impact of multiple work locations?
* A Non-Resident Person has been awarded a contract whereby parts of a substantial offshore platform/structure are assembled at various locations within the UAE and then moved to another location within the UAE for final assembly. This is considered part of a single project and the fact that the work was not undertaken in "one particular location" is immaterial. Activities performed at each location would be part of a cohesive project, and hence the project could be regarded as a fixed place Permanent Establishment for the Non-Resident Person.
* The very nature of certain construction/installation projects is such that a Non-Resident Person may have to perform different segments of the project in different locations, or the Business Activity may have to be relocated continuously or from time to time as the project progresses.





Whether client's premises can be at the disposal of a Non-Resident Person?
* Company B (a juridical person that is incorporated in and a tax resident of Country B) has been awarded a 2-year contract by a government owned company (client) in the UAE for rendering business consulting services to enhance the production of goods. The project requires employees of Company B to perform its activities from the client's office.
* Employees of Company B would have to seek specific permission to enter the client's premises on each occasion. They may be given temporary access cards, desks, access to training or meeting rooms for performance of contracted services only.
* In the event where, in substance, these restrictions do not establish, for Company B, any effective control or free


Issue
Examples

right to use the client's premises, they are unlikely to be at Company B's disposal such that no Permanent Establishment in the UAE arises (even if other tests i.e. place of Business, permanence and Business Activity are satisfied, due to the presence of the employees in the UAE).
* However, where Company B's employees had relatively free access such as long-term access cards, desk assignment, etc. over such an extended period, it is likely that in substance the disposal test would be satisfied and as such Company B would have a fixed place Permanent Establishment in the UAE (since the other tests i.e. place of Business, permanence and Business Activity are also satisfied, due to the presence of the employees).
* Note: if Company B's activities do not constitute a Permanent Establishment, it would still have State Sourced Income (see Section 8).






Whether hotel rooms can be considered      as
being at the disposal of Non- Resident Person?
* Company G (a juridical person that is incorporated and a tax resident in Country G) has been awarded a 2-year contract by a UAE company for rendering business consulting services to enhance production capacity.
* Company G sent a few employees to the UAE to execute the project but did not set up/acquire any office space in the UAE.
* During their 2-year stay in the UAE, Company G decided its employees would stay in a hotel and the employees conducted their project related activities from the hotel premises.
* In this case, Company G would have a fixed place Permanent Establishment in the UAE even if it does not have formal office space. The hotel would be treated as its place of Business since the employees worked from there and the hotel premises were in essence at their disposal.
Whether	an employee's home office can be at the disposal of a Non-Resident Person?
* Company C (a juridical person that is incorporated in and a tax resident of Country C), is engaged in rendering software development services. Considering the industry practice, nature of work and time zone difference with customers, Company C allows its employees to work from home.


Issue
Examples

* Accordingly, some employees of Company C decided to work from their home in the UAE, occasionally.
* While Company C has provided its employees with a laptop and connectivity instrument such as a data card, remote connectivity etc, in this case, Company C would not have a fixed place Permanent Establishment in the UAE, as it has no access rights and the homes of the employees are not at its disposal, and due to the following factors:
- Company C does not bear the costs/expenses related to the home office.
- Company C does not have either a formal or a legal right of access to the home office.
- Intermittent or incidental use of the home does not satisfy disposal condition.
- even if the home office is used on a regular/continuous basis by some employees, Company C never "required" the employees to work from their home, it is merely an "option" given to the employees.

Note that all relevant facts and circumstances must be examined on a case-by-case basis to determine whether a Permanent Establishment exists, and that conclusions drawn in this guide including the table above are purely for illustrative purposes.

Furthermore, even if a fixed place Permanent Establishment is not created for a Non- Resident Person, it would need to be assessed whether an agency Permanent Establishment exists (see Section 7.3). Additionally, provisions of the Corporate Tax Law will have to be read with the relevant Double Taxation Agreement (where available and effective) to determine the existence of a Permanent Establishment in the UAE. To the extent the provisions of a Double Taxation Agreement are inconsistent with the Corporate Tax Law, the Double Taxation Agreement provisions will prevail (see Section 5.9).

7.2.3. Specific inclusions to a fixed place Permanent Establishment

The Corporate Tax Law provides a list of illustrative and non-exhaustive examples of a fixed or permanent place of Business in the UAE as follows:37



37 Article 14(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


a. A place of management where management and commercial decisions that are necessary for the conduct of the Business are, in substance, made.
b. A branch.
c. An office.
d. A factory.
e. A workshop.
f. Land, buildings and other real property.
g. An installation or structure for the exploration of renewable or non-renewable natural resources.
h. A mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources, including vessels and structures used for the extraction of such resources.
i. A building site, a construction project, or place of assembly or installation, or supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only if such site, project or activities, whether separately or together with other sites, projects or activities, last more than 6 months, including connected activities that are conducted at the site or project by one or more Related Parties of the Non-Resident Person.

The above specific inclusions are to be read in the context of the general definition of a fixed place Permanent Establishment. Hence, the essential factors discussed in Section 7.2.1 equally apply to the specific inclusions and should be satisfied in order for a Non-Resident Person to create a Permanent Establishment in the UAE. Accordingly, the terms listed, "a place of management", "a branch", "an office", etc. must be interpreted in such a way that such places of Business constitute Permanent Establishments only if they meet the requirements of fixed place Permanent Establishment and are not used solely for "preparatory'' and "auxiliary'' activities.

The following sections discuss each of the above listed illustrative examples.

7.2.3.1. Place of management

"Place of management" represents a place where decisions related to day-to-day management of the Business (or part of the Business) are taken, or functions which relate to the management, supervision or direction are carried out.

"Management" in this case is the internal management of the company and does not include providing management services to other companies.

Examples related to place of management are discussed below:





7.2.3.2. Branch

A UAE branch of a Non-Resident Person is deemed to be an extension of the Non- Resident Person. For example, where a Non-Resident Person that carries on a retail Business, opens a branch or outlet in the UAE.

7.2.3.3. Office

An office includes any place where a Person works or conducts its Business Activities and may include a representative office, hotel room, hotel business centre, home office, etc. However, it is important to note that there would need to be a fact- specific determination in each case.



Implications under the Corporate Tax Law:

As working from the hotel for a period of 8 months constitutes a "fixed place of Business", Company I shall have a fixed place Permanent Establishment in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

Implications under the Double Taxation Agreement:

However, as per the Double Taxation Agreement between UAE and Country I, a company incorporated in Country I and executing a project in the UAE through its employees, is considered to create a Permanent Establishment only if the presence of its employees in the UAE exceeds 9 months.38

Since Company I is a company incorporated and tax resident of Country I, it would be entitled to benefit from the Double Taxation Agreement between the UAE and Country I while determining whether it creates a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

Considering the above facts, while the presence of Company I's employees in the UAE would create a "fixed place" Permanent Establishment for Company I in the UAE, as per the Corporate Tax Law (as its employees are present in the UAE, conducting core Business Activities and working from a fixed place of Business that is at the disposal of Company I), Company I would not have a Permanent Establishment under the Double Taxation Agreement between the UAE and Country I which provides a threshold of 9 months for creating a Permanent Establishment if services are rendered through the presence of employees in the UAE.

In the absence of a Permanent Establishment in the UAE (and assuming it does not have any other operations in/revenues from the UAE), Company I will not be required to register for Corporate Tax or undertake any Corporate Tax filing obligations.

7.2.3.4. Factory or workshop

A factory or workshop includes any location where goods are manufactured or assembled.





38 Refer to Section 10.1 - Annexure 1 for the extract of Article 5 on Permanent Establishment as per Double Taxation Agreement between the UAE and Country I.


7.2.3.5. Land, buildings, and other real property

Land, buildings and other real property means immovable property. The mere ownership of land, building, and immovable property by a Non-Resident Person in the UAE would not trigger a Permanent Establishment unless the requirements for a fixed place Permanent Establishment are met. However, a Non-Resident juridical person earning income from an Immovable Property located in the UAE would have a nexus in the UAE (see Section 9).39





39 Article 14(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law and Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
40 Article 2 of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.




7.2.3.6. Exploration activities and extraction activities

The list of activities that would constitute a fixed place Permanent Establishment under the Corporate Tax Law encompasses exploration and extraction activities.41 Exploration activities cover the exploration of renewable or non-renewable resources through an installation or structure in the UAE. This may include, for example, vessels used for the prospection of natural resources off-shore, or the extraction of natural resources through a mine, oil or gas well, quarry or any other place of extraction. The wording "any other place of extraction of natural resources" should be interpreted broadly. It includes, for example, all places of extraction of oil and gas whether onshore or offshore.

7.2.3.7. Building site, construction project, assembly or installation project

A building site, construction project, assembly or installation project or related supervisory activities, including connected activities that are conducted by one or more Related Parties of the Non-Resident Person, can create a Permanent Establishment in the UAE if such site or project exists for more than 6 months in any 12-month period.42 In case a Non-Resident Person conducts Business Activities in multiple sites/projects in the UAE, in order to determine the 6-month duration, time spent at all sites/projects/activities should be aggregated.

This includes not only construction of buildings but also construction of roads, bridges or canals, the renovation (involving more than mere maintenance or redecoration) of buildings, roads, bridges or canals, laying of pipelines and excavating and dredging.

The term "assembly or installation project" is not restricted to an installation related to a construction project. It also includes installation of equipment, such as a complex machine, in an existing building or outdoors.





41 Article 14(2)(g) and (h) of the Corporate Tax Law.
42 Article 14(2)(i) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 12: Building site or construction project

Company I (a juridical person that is incorporated in and a tax resident of Country I), starts a construction project in the UAE on 1 April 2024 and completes the work on 30 November 2024 (i.e. within 8 months).

Implications under the Corporate Tax Law:

Since Company I's project duration in the UAE has exceeded 6 months, it will constitute a Permanent Establishment in the UAE as per the Corporate Tax Law.

Implications under the Double Taxation Agreement:

Country I has an effective Double Taxation Agreement with the UAE which specifies that a company that is tax resident in Country I only creates a Permanent Establishment if the construction project "continues" for more than 9 months in the UAE.43 Company I would be eligible to benefit from such an agreement while determining if it has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

Considering the above, the construction project will not create a Permanent Establishment for Company I in the UAE as the applicable Double Taxation Agreement specifies a 9-month threshold (versus a 6-month threshold for construction projects under the Corporate Tax Law). In the absence of a Permanent Establishment in the UAE (and assuming it does not have any other operations in/revenues from the UAE), Company I is not considered a Taxable Person for Corporate Tax purposes (unless it has a nexus) and will not be subject to Corporate Tax Registration and filing obligations.

Transitional considerations

Where a project started before the Corporate Tax Law became applicable, only the length of time from the beginning of the first Tax Period (i.e. Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023) of the Non-Resident Person is taken into account. Any time before the start date of the Non-Resident Person's first Tax Period does not count towards the permanence test (6 months).








43 Refer to Section 10.1 - Annexure 1 for extract of Article 5 on Permanent Establishment as per Double Taxation Agreement between the UAE and Country I.




Subcontracting

If a Non-Resident Person (general contractor) which has undertaken the performance of a comprehensive project subcontracts all or multiple parts of such a project to other enterprises (subcontractors, whether or not they are Related Parties), the period spent by a subcontractor working on the building site must be considered as being time spent by the general contractor on the building project for the purposes of determining whether a Permanent Establishment exists for the general contractor. In that case, the site should be considered to be at the disposal of the general contractor during the time spent on that site by any subcontractor (whether or not they are Related Parties) where circumstances indicate that, during that time, the general contractor clearly has the construction site at its disposal by reason of factors such as the fact that they have legal possession of the site, control access to and use of the site and have overall responsibility for what happens at that location during that period. The subcontractor may also have a Permanent Establishment at the site if their activities there last more than 6 months.

Automatic equipment

A Permanent Establishment may exist if the Business of the Non-Resident Person is carried on mainly through automatic equipment where the activities of the personnel are restricted to setting up, operating, controlling and maintaining such equipment. Determining whether or not automatic machines (i.e. gaming and vending equipment) set up by a Non-Resident Person in the UAE constitute a Permanent Establishment depends on whether or not the Non-Resident Person carries on a Business Activity besides the initial setting up of the machines. A Permanent Establishment does not exist if the Non-Resident Person merely sets up the machines and then leases the machines to other enterprises. A Permanent Establishment may exist, however, if the Non-Resident Person which sets up the machines also operates and maintains them for its own account. This would also apply if the machines are operated and maintained by an agent dependent on the Non-Resident Person.




Splitting of contracts

To curb potential abuse in the form of artificially splitting-up contracts regarding a building site or a construction project, some or all of which are less than 6 months at different locations; or splitting contracts between Related Parties of a Non-Resident Person such as other group companies;44 the Corporate Tax Law provides that the duration threshold of 6 months will be tested by consolidating all such activities.45 Such abuse may also fall under the application of the General Anti-abuse Rule.46




44 Article 35 of the Corporate Tax Law.
45 Article 14(2)(i) of the Corporate Tax Law includes the wording "including connected activities that are conducted at the site or project by one or more Related Parties of the Non-Resident Person."
46 Article 50 of the Corporate Tax Law.







47 Article 35 of the Corporate Tax Law.




Duration/period of existence of a site/project

A building site, a construction project, or place of assembly or installation exists from the date on which the contractor begins their work, including any preparatory work, in the country where the construction is to be established, for example, if they install a planning office for the construction or temporary housing for the employees assigned to work on the building site or construction project.

A period during which a site/project is being tested by the Non-Resident Person should also generally be counted.

In practice, the delivery ("handing-over") of the site/project to the client will usually represent the end of the period of work, provided the Non-Resident Person no longer works on the site after its delivery for the purposes of completing its construction.

A site/project would not be regarded as ceasing to exist when work is temporarily discontinued due to seasonal (for example, extreme weather) or other temporary interruptions (for example, shortage of labour/material). Such time periods shall be included in determining the life of a site/project.


7.2.4. Preparatory or auxiliary activities

A Non-Resident Person conducting Business Activities in the UAE will not constitute a Permanent Establishment if such activities are not core Business or income


generating activities (as the Business Activity test will not be satisfied). 48 Such activities may be categorised as preparatory or auxiliary activities, that are specifically carved out from the meaning of a fixed place Permanent Establishment.

"Preparatory" activities are those activities which precede commencement of core Business Activities and support the core Business Activities.

"Auxiliary" activities are those which aid or support the core Business function, without being part of the essential and significant part of the activity of the enterprise. They are secondary to the main or general functions of the enterprise which realise profits. It is unlikely that an activity that requires a significant proportion of the assets or employees of the enterprise could be considered as having an auxiliary character.

Preparatory or auxiliary activities cease to be economically viable when separated from the rest of the enterprise. Although such activities are only an insignificant portion of the enterprise's overall income generating activities, such activities are still considered economically viable because they are supplemented by work performed by other parts of the enterprise.

In this regard, the Corporate Tax Law specifies that a fixed or permanent place in the UAE shall not be considered a Permanent Establishment of a Non-Resident Person if it is only used for:49

1. Storing, displaying or delivering of goods or merchandise belonging to that Person.
2. Keeping a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to that Person for the sole purpose of processing by another Person.
3. Purchasing goods or merchandise or collecting information for the Non-Resident Person.
4. Conducting any other activity of a preparatory or auxiliary nature for the Non- Resident Person.
5. Conducting any combination of the above listed activities, provided that the overall activity is of a preparatory or auxiliary nature.

7.2.4.1. Storing, displaying or delivering of goods or merchandise

A place that is used for storing, displaying or delivering goods or merchandise belonging to the Non-Resident Person will not create a Permanent Establishment in the UAE if the place is used solely to perform the said activities for the customers of the Non-Resident Person. 50

48 Article 14(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
49 Article 14(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
50 Article 14(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.



A Non-Resident Person owning and operating warehousing facilities in the UAE for the purpose of providing delivery and warehousing services to other businesses or not to its own customers would not be covered by the exclusion. In that case, the warehouse would constitute a Permanent Establishment as per the Corporate Tax Law.






51 Article 14(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.




7.2.4.2. Keeping a stock of goods for processing purposes

The exclusion of keeping a stock of goods or merchandise is applicable only where a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the Non-Resident Person is maintained by another Person for the sole purpose of processing by that other Person in facilities operated by the same other Person and the Non-Resident Person does not have the facilities at its disposal.52 Such place cannot, therefore, be a Permanent Establishment of that Non-Resident Person. Where, for example, a logistics company operates a warehouse in the UAE and continuously stores in that warehouse goods or merchandise belonging to a Non-Resident Person to which the logistics company is not related, the warehouse does not constitute a fixed place of Business at the disposal of the Non-Resident Person and the exception is, therefore, irrelevant. Where, however, that Non-Resident Person is allowed and actually exercises unlimited access to a separate part of the warehouse for the purpose of inspecting and maintaining the goods or merchandise stored therein, the exception would be applicable and the question of whether a Permanent Establishment exists will then depend on whether these activities constitute a preparatory or auxiliary activity.

7.2.4.3. Purchasing goods or merchandise or collecting information

A place that is used for purchasing goods or merchandise or collecting information for the Non-Resident Person will not create Permanent Establishment for the Non- Resident Person if the aforementioned activities do not constitute or are not part of the main service that the company renders and generates income from. This is because the activities of purchasing goods or merchandise or collecting information would not be economically viable when separated from the rest of the enterprise.53


52 Article 14(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
53 Article 14(3)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.




7.2.4.4. Combination of activities

If a Non-Resident Person conducts, in the same fixed place of Business, multiple activities which are preparatory or auxiliary in nature, it does not imply that the Non- Resident Person has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, provided the overall activities resulting from such a combination are preparatory or auxiliary in nature.54

In some cases, it may be difficult to distinguish between activities (or combination of activities) which have a preparatory or auxiliary character and those which do not. The decisive criterion is whether the activities form an essential/significant part of the overall activities of an enterprise. Each individual case will have to be examined on its own merits.

Consider the example discussed under Section 7.2.3.5 (Example 11), wherein Company A, which manufactures FMCG products, did not create a Permanent Establishment in the UAE because its employees in the UAE performed non-core Business Activities in the UAE (i.e. collecting information).

However, now assume that Company A decides to expand its Business Activities at the same place of Business in the UAE and now undertakes research and development on various nutrients, preservatives, chemicals, etc. to be directly used in the manufacturing/production of various FMCG goods. In this case, the activities performed in the UAE are no longer preparatory or auxiliary in nature as they are an essential part of the overall Business of Company A. Hence under these circumstances, Company A would have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

7.2.4.5. Duration for which preparatory activities are conducted at the place of Business can be indicative but not decisive

Preparatory activities are performed in contemplation of conducting activities which constitute an essential/significant part of the activities of the enterprise. The duration for which preparatory activities are conducted at a particular place would be considered in light of the nature of the core activities of the enterprise. The fact that the preparatory activities are conducted for an extended period of time would not trigger on its own a Permanent Establishment.55

54 Article 14(3)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.





7.2.4.6. Implications where preparatory or auxiliary activities are performed for a third party

Preparatory or auxiliary activities refers to activities that are carried on by an enterprise solely for itself. Hence, if a Non-Resident Person performs activities which are traditionally of a preparatory or auxiliary nature for another Person, the same would constitute a Permanent Establishment for the Non-Resident as it is not "solely" conducting such activities for itself.56


7.2.4.7. Anti-fragmentation

The Corporate Tax Law Permanent Establishment provisions include an anti- fragmentation rule. 57 Anti-fragmentation takes a substance approach to guard against potentially abusive practices whereby a cohesive Business Activity is fragmented into a number of small operations in order to argue that each has a preparatory or auxiliary character.

Geographical coherence, nature of the activity and the commercial rationale of outsourcing or fragmenting several business processes from the main activity, may be relevant in testing whether the combination of activities continues to be of preparatory or auxiliary nature.




56 Article 14(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


If all the operations conducted by a Non-Resident and its Related Parties, either in the same location or different locations, form a cohesive Business operation (had they not been artificially fragmented), there would be a Permanent Establishment.


7.2.4.8. Can a subsidiary company, incorporated in the UAE, of a non- resident parent company be regarded as a fixed place Permanent Establishment?

The existence of a subsidiary company in the UAE does not, by itself, create a Permanent Establishment of its non-resident parent company. This follows from the principle that, for the purpose of taxation, a subsidiary company is an independent legal entity. Even though the trade/Business carried on by the subsidiary company is managed/overseen by the parent company, that does not automatically imply that the subsidiary company is a Permanent Establishment of the parent company as all the factors needed to give rise to a fixed place Permanent Establishment may not be present. However, this has to be tested against whether the subsidiary is in essence acting as an agent or has been incorporated to artificially split/dissect cohesive Business Activities of the non-resident parent.

7.2.4.9. Additional exclusions from fixed place Permanent Establishment

A natural person will not create a Permanent Establishment for a Non-Resident Person even if the natural person is present in the UAE, provided that:58

1. The natural person is in the UAE due to an unpredictable temporary and exceptional situation which is beyond their control, which occurred while the natural person was already in the UAE (see Section 7.2.4.10); or




2. The natural person who is employed by the Non-Resident Person does not conduct core income-generating activities of the Non-Resident Person or its Related Parties, and the Non-Resident Person does not derive any State Sourced Income, for instance sales to UAE customers (see Section 8 for details).


Note that these additional exclusions augment the preparatory and auxiliary exclusions. As such, the additional exclusions set out above would only need to be considered if the presence of a natural person in the UAE was sufficient to otherwise create a fixed place Permanent Establishment.

7.2.4.10. Exceptional situations

For the purposes of point (1) of Section 7.2.4.9, the presence of a natural person in the UAE can only qualify as due to an exceptional situation in case it is temporary and all of the following conditions are satisfied:59

1. The presence of the natural person in the UAE is a consequence of exceptional circumstances of a public or private nature.
2. The exceptional circumstances cannot reasonably be predicted by the natural person or the Non-Resident Person.


3. The natural person did not express any intention to remain in the UAE when the exceptional circumstances end.
4. The Non-Resident Person did not have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE before the occurrence of the exceptional circumstances.
5. The Non-Resident Person did not consider that the natural person is creating a Permanent Establishment or deriving income in the UAE as per the tax legislation applicable in other jurisdictions.

Exceptional circumstances

In the above context, an exceptional circumstance is a situation or an event beyond the natural person's control, which takes place while the natural person is already in the UAE, and which could not have been reasonably predicted or prevented and which did not allow them to leave the UAE as originally planned.

* The following circumstances may qualify as exceptional circumstances of a public nature:60

1. Adoption of public health measures by the competent authorities in the UAE or in the jurisdiction of the original workplace or by the World Health Organization.
2. Imposition of travel restrictions by the competent authorities in the UAE or in the jurisdiction of the original workplace.
3. Imposition of legal sanctions on the natural person preventing them from leaving the UAE.
4. Acts of war or occurrence of terrorist attacks.
5. Occurrence of natural disasters or force majeure beyond reasonable control.
6. Any other circumstances similar to those provided for above as prescribed by the FTA.

* The following circumstances may qualify as exceptional circumstances of a private nature:61

1. Occurrence of an emergency health condition affecting the natural person or their relatives up to the fourth degree, including by way of adoption or guardianship.
2. Any other circumstances similar to those provided for above as prescribed by the FTA.





60 Article 2(2)(a) of Ministerial Decision No. 83 of 2023.





7.3. Agency Permanent Establishment

Even if a Person, that is not a Resident Person, does not have a fixed place of Business in the UAE, it could nonetheless have an agency Permanent Establishment unless it is an agent that is legally or economically independent from the principal (see Section 7.3.2).62

Person A, that is not a Resident Person, will be deemed to have an agency Permanent Establishment in the UAE due to the activities of a Person B (who can be either a natural person or a juridical person), if these activities are conducted for and on behalf of Person A. Person B can either be a Resident Person or Non- Resident Person in the UAE.








62 Article 14(5) and Article 14(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.


7.3.1. When does a Person create an agency Permanent Establishment for a Non-Resident Person?

A Person would create an agency Permanent Establishment for a Non-Resident Person if such Person, on a regular basis: 63

* concludes contracts in the UAE on behalf of a Non-Resident Person; or
* negotiates contracts in the UAE on behalf of a Non-Resident Person and such contracts are concluded by the Non-Resident Person without any material modification to the terms of the contracts.

The conclusion/negotiation of contracts by such Person must take place repeatedly and not merely in isolated cases, for it to be habitual and thus, constitute a Permanent Establishment for the Non-Resident Person.

Furthermore, whether such Person constitutes a Permanent Establishment for the Non-Resident Person should be determined based on commercial realities of the situation. The mere fact that a Person has "attended" or "participated" in negotiations between the Non-Resident Person and its UAE customers will not be sufficient, by itself, to determine that such Person has concluded/negotiated contracts on behalf of the Non-Resident Person.

A Person's actions should be binding on the Non-Resident Person vis--vis the end customer, and it cannot be said to be acting on behalf of a Non-Resident Person if the Non-Resident Person is not directly or indirectly affected by the actions performed by such Person.

It is immaterial whether the contracts are concluded in the name of the Non-Resident Person or such other Person who is acting on behalf of the Non-Resident Person.

This means that even commissionaire or undisclosed principal arrangements can trigger a Permanent Establishment in the UAE for a Non-Resident Person.

In general terms, a commissionaire arrangement refers to an arrangement whereby a Person sells products in its own name but on behalf of another (Non-Resident) Person (who is the owner of these products). In theory, the commissionaire does not usually bind the principal and the customer cannot sue the Non-Resident Person, as there is no contractual relationship between the Non-Resident Person and the customer.




63 Article 14(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.


However, in substance, the obligation to perform is on the owner of the goods (i.e. Non-Resident Person) who sells directly to the customer.

To ensure commissionaire arrangements are not used to avoid the creation of a Permanent Establishment by the Non-Resident Person, emphasis is placed on substance over form. Therefore, where the activities of a Person/commissionaire bind the Non-Resident Person to perform activities, this would trigger a Permanent Establishment, even if the contracts are not in the name of the Non-Resident Person.

Example 29: An agent creating an agency Permanent Establishment for another company

A pharmaceutical company, Company P (a juridical person that is incorporated in and a tax resident of Country U) sells its medicines across the globe. For sales of its medicines in the Middle East region, including the UAE, it has appointed a distribution company, Company D (a juridical person that is incorporated in and a tax resident of Country B) that exclusively works for Company P.

Company D regularly meets potential customers of Company P in the UAE and convinces them to purchase medicines of Company P and negotiates all the essential terms of the contract (i.e. price, place of delivery, terms of payments, etc). Thereafter, Company D passes the sales leads to Company P and the contracts are concluded and executed directly by Company P. Company D does not have the authority to conclude the contract with UAE customers on behalf of Company P.

Implications under the Corporate Tax Law:

In this case, as per the Corporate Tax Law, the activities of Company D give rise to an agency Permanent Establishment in the UAE for Company P (due to its negotiation activities) even though Company D does not have the authority to conclude contracts on behalf of Company P with UAE customers.

Implications under the Double Taxation Agreement:

However, the UAE and Country U have an effective Double Taxation Agreement that specifies that a company that is tax resident in Country U (i.e. foreign company) creates an agency Permanent Establishment in the UAE only if a person (for example, agent, other than an independent agent) acts on behalf of the foreign company and habitually exercises in the UAE an authority to conclude contracts on behalf of the foreign company. Unlike the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law, under the Double Taxation Agreement between the UAE and Country U, a person




Example 30: Commissionaire arrangement can constitute an agency Permanent Establishment for a Non-Resident Person

Company D (a juridical person incorporated in and a tax resident of Country D) manufactures and sells clothes internationally. It has entered into a commissionaire arrangement with Company E to sell its clothes to customers in the UAE, for which Company E receives a commission from Company D.

Company E acts as a representative of Company D in the UAE market and enters into a contract for sale with the customers in the UAE, in its own name (i.e. Company E's), issuing invoices to the customers in the UAE.

Legal title for the goods passes from Company D to the customers in the UAE (note, this is not the same as the physical delivery of the goods, which may well be from Company E to the customer). Legal title does not pass to Company E. The products remain the property of Company D until they pass to the customers in UAE.

In case any issue is identified in the purchased products, customers will have recourse to Company D (and not Company E).

Company E, which is acting in its own name, but on behalf of Company D, will


64 Refer to Section 10.2 - Annexure 2 for the extract of Article 5 on Permanent Establishment Article as per the Double Taxation Agreement between the UAE and Country U.




7.3.2. Independent agents: When does a Person not create an agency Permanent Establishment for a Non-Resident Person?

Even if the conditions specified in Section 7.3.1 are met, a Non-Resident Person will not have an agency Permanent Establishment in the UAE if: 65

* the Person who is acting on behalf of the Non-Resident Person is an "independent agent"; and
* the Person performs activities for the Non-Resident Person in its ordinary course of Business.

However, if such Person acts exclusively or almost exclusively on behalf of the Non- Resident Person or it is legally or economically dependent on the Non-Resident Person, then it will not be an "independent agent" and will still create an agency Permanent Establishment for the Non-Resident Person in the UAE.

A Non-Resident Person will not have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE if another Person merely promotes and/or markets goods or services of the Non- Resident Person in the UAE in a way that does not directly result in the conclusion of contracts.

For a Person to create an agency Permanent Establishment for a Non-Resident Person, it should be involved in concluding or negotiating contracts that constitute the "Business" of the Non-Resident Person. It would be irrelevant if a Person concludes contracts which relate to activities which would be considered preparatory or auxiliary (for example, contracts that are not income generating for the Non- Resident Person) in the UAE for a Non-Resident Person.

Some illustrative examples are discussed below:










65 Article 14(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.




Example 32: Permanent Establishment triggered by a subsidiary

Company C (incorporated in and tax resident of Country A) distributes various goods/services worldwide through its websites. Company U (incorporated in and tax resident of the UAE) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Company C. Company U's employees send emails, make telephone calls to, or visit large organisations to convince them to buy Company C's products and services and are, therefore, responsible for large accounts in the UAE. When customers in the UAE are persuaded by employees of Company U to purchase a given quantity of goods/services, they indicate the price that will be payable for that quantity, that a contract must be concluded online with Company C before the goods/services can be provided by Company C and explain the standard terms of contract with Company C including the fixed price structure, which the employees are not authorised to modify. The customers subsequently conclude the contracts online for the quantities discussed with Company U's employees. In this case, Company U's employees negotiate the contract with the end customers which are accepted by Company C without any modifications. Company U and its employees are acting on behalf of Company C. The fact that Company U's employees cannot modify the terms of the contracts does not mean that the conclusion/negotiation of the contracts is not the direct result of the activities performed by Company U employees. Hence, the activities of Company U employees would create an agency Permanent Establishment for Company C in the UAE.






Important notes:

* An analysis of whether a Non-Resident Person has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE is a fact and context specific exercise.
* Additionally, even if a Non-Resident Person does not have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, it should consider if it has nexus in the UAE, as this would make it subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE.
* As discussed in Section 5.9, Double Taxation Agreements should be considered when determining the existence of Permanent Establishments where these agreements are effective and signed between the UAE and jurisdiction of the relevant party(ies).


8. State Sourced Income

Corporate Tax shall be imposed on a Taxable Person, including a Non-Resident Person, if the Non-Resident Person derives State Sourced Income, i.e. income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE. 66 This condition (deriving State Sourced Income) is one of three independent conditions for identifying whether a Person is a Non-Resident Person.

Accordingly, a Person that is not a Resident Person in the UAE, and that derives income from the UAE should determine if the income qualifies as State Sourced Income. There will not be a need for the Non-Resident Person to register for Corporate Tax if the State Sourced Income they derive is not attributable to a UAE Permanent Establishment or a nexus in the UAE.

State Sourced Income, derived by a Non-Resident Person, that is not attributable to a Permanent Establishment, may be subject to Withholding Tax; however, as mentioned in Section 5.4, Withholding Tax is currently levied at the rate of 0%.67

In the case of a Non-Resident Person, State Sourced Income includes:

1. Income derived from a Resident Person, i.e. income derived from a juridical person or natural person that is considered a Resident Person as per the Corporate Tax Law:68


2. Income derived by a Non-Resident Person from another Non-Resident Person to the extent it is attributable to a Business or Business Activity conducted by that other Non-Resident Person through a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.69






66 Article 11(4)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 67 Article 45(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 68 Article 13(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 69 Article 13(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.




3. Income otherwise accrued in or derived from activities performed, assets located, capital invested, rights used, or services performed or benefitted from in the UAE.70 In other words, income may be considered to have a UAE source (State Sourced Income) for Corporate Tax purposes where the place of use, or performance of the activity, or the tangible or intangible assets generating the income, are located in the UAE.


4. Further examples of State Sourced Income (which are subject to any conditions and limitations that the Minister may determine) include:71

a. Income from the sale of goods: The general rule for the sale of goods is that the income is sourced to where the sale and resulting transfer of title takes place, i.e. State Sourced Income is derived where the buyer that will own the good is a Resident Person in the UAE.
b. Income from services: Income from services would generally be considered State Sourced Income where the service is rendered in the UAE or where the ultimate recipient or beneficiary of the service is located in the UAE. In other words, the service provider (or their employees/representatives) is (are) located in the UAE while providing the service, or the Person benefiting from the service is a Resident Person in the UAE.



70 Article 13(1)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
71 Article 13(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


c. Income from a contract: Income from the performance of contracts would generally be sourced in the place where the contract is performed or to where the ultimate recipient or beneficiary of the performance under the contract is located. This is not intended to cover income earned under an employment contract or income from a contract involving movable or immovable property which will be sourced where the property is located. In that respect, income from the sale of a business opportunity would be considered as State Sourced Income.


d. Income from movable or immovable property: Income arising from the use or sale of tangible property is sourced from the place where the property is located. For example, the sale of an apartment located in the UAE, or rental income earned from property located in the UAE (or from an interest in such property) would generally be considered State Sourced Income.
e. Income from the disposal of shares or capital rights of a Resident Person: Capital gains and other income derived from the sale of shares or other rights in the capital of a juridical person is considered to be State Sourced Income where the juridical person is incorporated or resident in the UAE for Corporate Tax purposes.
f. Income from intellectual or intangible property: Income received from the use, the right to use, or the granting of the permission to use in the UAE of patents, trademarks, trade brands, copyrights, artistic or scientific work, secret formula or process, goodwill and other such intangible or intellectual property in the UAE would generally be sourced from the UAE. This is irrespective of the location and residence for Corporate Tax purposes of the payor and recipient of the income.





g. Interest income: Interest income is sourced from the UAE if it meets any of the following conditions:
1. the loan is secured by movable or immovable property located in the UAE, i.e. Interest may be considered State Sourced Income where the collateral that secures the relevant loan or financing arrangement is located in the UAE; or
2. the borrower is a Resident Person; or
3. the borrower is a Government Entity.

h. Insurance income: Insurance or reinsurance premiums are considered to be State Sourced income in any of the following instances:
1. the insured asset is located in the UAE;
2. the insured Person is a Resident Person; or
3. the insured activity is conducted in the UAE.


9. Nexus in the UAE

Corporate Tax is imposed on juridical Non-Resident Persons who have a nexus in the UAE. Non-Resident Persons that have a nexus in the UAE are required to register for Corporate Tax purposes. The nexus concept does not apply to natural persons.

A juridical Non-Resident Person will be considered to have a nexus in the UAE if it derives income from any Immovable Property in the UAE, which means:72

a. any area or land over which rights or interest or services can be created; or
b. any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed; or
c. any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.

Income from Immovable Property will include income derived by way of sale, disposal, assignment, direct use, leasing or sub-leasing or any other form of exploitation of Immovable Property.73 Taxable Income from Immovable Property will be subject to Corporate Tax as follows:

* 0% (zero percent) on the first AED 375,000 of Taxable Income
* 9% (nine percent) on the amount above AED 375,000 of Taxable Income

If a Non-Resident Person is a Qualifying Free Zone Person, then the provisions related to the Free Zone Corporate Tax regime will apply on income from Immovable Property received by such Person.



72 Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
73 Article 2(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.







10. Annexures

10.1. Annexure 1 - Relevant extract of Double Taxation Agreement between the UAE and Country I

"Article 5

Permanent Establishment

1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.

2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:

a. a place of management;
b. a branch;
c. an office;
d. a factory;
e. a workshop;
f. a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources;
g. a farm or plantation;
h. a building site or construction or assembly project or supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only where such site, project or activity continues for a period of more than 9 months;
i. the furnishing of services including consultancy services by an enterprise of a Contracting State through employees or other personnel in the other Contracting State, provided that such activities continue for the same project or connected project for a period or periods aggregating more than 9months within any twelve-month period.

3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to include:

a. the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;
b. the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery;
c. the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by another enterprise;
d. the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise, or of collecting information, for the enterprise;
e. the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character.


4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (3), where a person - other than an agent of independent status to whom paragraph (5) applies - is acting on behalf of an enterprise and has, and habitually exercises in a Contracting State an authority to conclude contracts on behalf of the enterprise, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in that State in respect of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, unless the activities of such person are limited to the purchase of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.

5. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State merely because it carries on business in that other State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, he will not be considered an agent of independent status within the meaning of this paragraph."

10.2. Annexure 2 - Relevant extract of Double Taxation Agreement between the UAE and Country U

"Article 5

Permanent Establishment

1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.

2. The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:

a. a place of management;
b. a branch;
c. an office;
d. a factory;
e. a workshop;
f. a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources;

3. A building site or construction or installation project constitutes a permanent establishment only if it lasts more than 12 months.

4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not to include:


a. the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;
b. the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery;
c. the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing by another enterprise;
d. the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise, or of collecting information, for the enterprise;
e. the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character.
f. the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to (e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of a preparatory or auxiliary character.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2), where a person - other than an agent of independent status to whom paragraph (6) applies - is acting on behalf of an enterprise and has, and habitually exercises, in a Contracting State an authority to conclude contracts on behalf of the enterprise, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in that State in respect of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph (4) which, if exercised through a fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of that paragraph.

6. An enterprise shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in a Contracting State merely because it carries on business in that State through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business.

7. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other."


11.	Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
October 2023
* First version

	











Taxation of Foreign Source Income
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGFSI1

November 2023


Contents
1. Glossary	3
2. Introduction	8
2.1. Overview	8
2.2. Purpose of this guide	8
2.3. Who should read this guide?	8
2.4. How to use this guide	8
2.5. Legislative references	9
2.6. Status of this guide	10
3. Relevance of foreign source income under the Corporate Tax Law	12
4. What is foreign source income?	14
4.1. Examples of foreign source income	14
4.2. Is income derived from a Free Zone Person foreign source income?	14
4.3. Is income derived by a Qualifying Free Zone Person from a Permanent Establishment foreign source income?	15
5. Who is subject to tax on foreign source income?	16
5.1. Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law	18
5.1.1. Juridical person	18
5.1.2. Natural person	18
5.2. Non-Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law	23
5.2.1. Juridical person	23
5.2.2. Natural person	25
5.3. Impact of Double Taxation Agreements on foreign source income	25
6. When does foreign source income become taxable in the UAE?	26
7. How is foreign source income taxed?	27
7.1. Determining Taxable Income	27
7.1.1. Applicable Accounting Standards	27
7.1.2. Cash Basis of Accounting	27
7.1.3. Expenditure and losses relating to foreign source income	28
7.1.4. Aggregation of foreign income and expenditure	29

7.1.5. Income in foreign currency to be converted to AED	30
7.2. Exemptions of particular relevance for foreign source income	31
7.2.1. Participation Exemption	31
7.2.2. Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption	32
7.3. Determining Corporate Tax Payable	34
8. Foreign Tax Credit	35
8.1. What is Foreign Tax Credit?	35
8.1.1. Foreign taxes for which Foreign Tax Credit is available	35
8.1.2. When will foreign tax be considered as "paid"?	36
8.2. Who can claim Foreign Tax Credit?	37
8.3. How to calculate the Foreign Tax Credit	38
8.3.1. General	38
8.3.2. Unutilised Foreign Tax Credit	40
8.3.3. Income-by-income approach: multiple sources of foreign income	41
8.3.4. Scenarios where no Foreign Tax Credit is allowed	42
8.4. Timing mismatches	44
8.5. Impact of Double Taxation Agreements	49
8.6. Documentation	49
9. Updates and Amendments	51

1. Glossary

Accounting Income: The accounting net profit or loss for the relevant Tax Period as per the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Accounting Standards: The accounting standards specified in Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.

Accrual Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income when earned and expenditure when incurred.

AED: The United Arab Emirates dirham.

Authority: Federal Tax Authority.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or activities, conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Cash Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income and expenditure when cash payments are received and paid.

Connected Person: Any Person affiliated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 36(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses.

Corporate Tax Payable: Corporate Tax that has or will become due for payment to the FTA in respect of one or more Tax Periods.

Dividend: Any payments or distributions that are declared or paid on or in respect of shares or other rights participating in the profits of the issuer of such shares or rights which do not constitute a return on capital or a return on debt claims. These payments or distributions are considered dividends whether based in cash, securities, or other


properties, and whether payable out of profits or retained earnings or from any account or legal reserve or from capital reserve or revenue. This will include any payment or benefit which in substance or effect constitutes a distribution of profits made in connection with the acquisition or redemption or cancellation of shares or termination of other ownership interests or rights. It also comprises any transaction or arrangement with a Related Party or Connected Person which does not comply with Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Domestic Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence of a Qualifying Free Zone Person outside the Free Zone in the UAE.

Double Taxation Agreement: An international agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Exempt Income: Any income exempt from Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.

Financial Year: The Gregorian calendar year, or the twelve-month period for which the Taxable Person prepares Financial Statements.

Foreign Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence outside the UAE of a Resident Person that is determined in accordance with the criteria prescribed in Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Foreign Tax Credit: Tax paid under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction on income or profits that may be deducted from the Corporate Tax due, in accordance with the conditions of Article 47(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.


Government Entity: The Federal Government, Local Governments, ministries, government departments, government agencies, authorities and public institutions of the Federal Government or Local Governments.

IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.

IFRS for SMEs: International Financial Reporting Standard for small and medium- sized entities.

Immovable Property: Means any of the following:
a. Any area of land over which rights or interests or services can be created.
b. Any building, structure or engineering work attached to the land permanently or attached to the seabed.
c. Any fixture or equipment which makes up a permanent part of the land or is permanently attached to the building, structure or engineering work or attached to the seabed.

Interest: Any amount accrued or paid for the use of money or credit, including discounts, premiums and profit paid in respect of an Islamic financial instrument and other payments economically equivalent to interest, and any other amounts incurred in connection with the raising of finance, excluding payments of the principal amount.

Licence: A document issued by a Licensing Authority under which a Business or Business Activity is conducted in the UAE.

Licensing Authority: The competent authority concerned with licensing or authorising a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participating Interest: An ownership interest in the shares or capital of a juridical person that meets the conditions referred to in Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Participation: The juridical person in which the Participating Interest is held.

Participation Exemption: An exemption from Corporate Tax for income from a Participating Interest, available under Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law and as specified under Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.



Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.

Personal Investment: Investment activity that a natural person conducts for their personal account that is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022 issuing the Commercial Transactions Law.

Qualifying Activities: Any activities determined in accordance with Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 265 of 2023 and conducted by a Qualifying Free Zone Person from which Qualifying Income is derived.

Qualifying Free Zone Person: A Free Zone Person that meets the conditions of Article 18 of the Corporate Tax Law and is subject to Corporate Tax under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Qualifying Income: Any income derived by a Qualifying Free Zone Person that is subject to Corporate Tax at the rate specified in Article 3(2)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Real Estate Investment: Any investment activity conducted by a natural person related to, directly or indirectly, the sale, leasing, sub-leasing, and renting of land or real estate property in the UAE that is not conducted, or does not require to be conducted, through a Licence from a Licensing Authority.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.

Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

State Sourced Income: Income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE as specified in Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.



Tax Loss: Any negative Taxable Income as calculated under the Corporate Tax Law for a given Tax Period.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

Turnover: The gross amount of income derived during a Gregorian calendar year.

UAE: United Arab Emirates.

Voluntary Disclosure: A form prepared by the FTA pursuant to which a Taxpayer notifies the FTA of an error or omission in the Tax Return, Tax Assessment or Tax refund application, in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 of the Tax Procedures Law.

Wage: The wage that is given to the employee in consideration of their services under the employment contract, whether in cash or in kind, payable annually, monthly, weekly, daily, hourly, or by piece-meal, and includes all allowances, and bonuses in addition to any other benefits provided for, in the employment contract or in accordance with the applicable legislation in the UAE.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance to taxpayers on the taxation of foreign source income under the Corporate Tax Law. The guide explains the following:

* Relevance of foreign source income under the Corporate Tax Law;
* What is considered foreign source income for Taxable Persons under the Corporate Tax Law?
* Which Taxable Persons are subject to tax on foreign source income?
* When is foreign source income taxable?
* Determining Taxable Income and Exempt Income in respect of foreign source income; and
* What is a Foreign Tax Credit, and how is it computed?

2.3. Who should read this guide?

The guide should be read by a Taxable Person who receives or derives income from sources outside the UAE, including a Qualifying Free Zone Person. It is intended to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further


guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in topic specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how the key Corporate Tax rules apply to foreign source income. The examples in the guide:
- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural person.

The numerical examples in the guide are provided in the context of Taxable Persons, other than a Qualifying Free Zone Person. While the principles discussed in the examples equally apply in the context of a Qualifying Free Zone Person, the tax calculations may differ on the basis of the Corporate Tax rate applicable under Article 3(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Further, where relevant, the analysis in the examples in the guide are subject to the impact of the relevant Double Taxation Agreement, if any. To the extent the terms of a Double Taxation Agreement are inconsistent with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law, the terms of the Double Taxation Agreement shall prevail.1

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:

* Federal Decree-Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as "Tax Procedures Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 on Specifying the Categories of Businesses or Business Activities Conducted by a Resident or Non-Resident Natural Person that are Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023";
* Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023 on Determination of a Non-Resident Person's Nexus in the UAE for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023";

1 Article 66 of the Corporate Tax Law.


* Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023 on the Executive Regulation of Federal Decree- Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 74";
* Cabinet Decision No. 100 of 2023 on Determining Qualifying Income for the Qualifying Free Zone Person for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 100 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023 on the Participation Exemption for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023 on the General Rules for Determining Taxable Income for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 265 of 2023 regarding Qualifying Activities and Excluded Activities for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 265 of 2023";
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 5 of 2023 on Conditions for Change in Tax Period for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023"; and
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 13 of 2023 on Determination of Conditions for Conversion of Amounts Quantified in a Currency other than the United Arab Emirates Dirham for the Purposes of the Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 13 of 2023".

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it reads when the guide is published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the


application of the Corporate Tax Law. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. Relevance of foreign source income under the Corporate Tax Law
A Resident Person in the UAE, or a Non-Resident Person with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, may earn income from a foreign jurisdiction i.e. "foreign source income" due to activities, operations or assets in another jurisdiction. The UAE Corporate Tax treatment of foreign source income depends on the type of Person receiving the income, the nature of the income and the availability of exemptions and reliefs.

In the case of a Taxable Person, foreign source income may be subject to Corporate Tax as follows:

* A juridical Resident Person, for example a company incorporated in the UAE, is subject to tax on its worldwide income. Hence, any foreign source income may be subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE.2
* A natural Resident Person is subject to tax on any income derived from a Business or Business Activity they conduct in the UAE if the total Turnover from such a Business or Business Activities is above AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year. 3 Thus, any foreign source income which is linked to the Business or Business Activity they conduct in the UAE may be subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE.4

A Non-Resident Person having a Permanent Establishment in the UAE is typically taxed on the income generated from activities conducted in the UAE. Thus, if it receives any foreign source income attributable to its Permanent Establishment in the UAE, that income may be subject to Corporate Tax.5

The next step is to consider if any exemptions are available with respect to the foreign source income, typically to reduce or eliminate potential double taxation. 6 For example:
* the Participation Exemption with respect to Dividends, profit distributions and capital gains derived from juridical Non-Resident Persons (see Section 7.2.1)7




2 Article 12(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
3 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
4 Article 12(2) read with Article 11(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.
5 Article 12(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law. 6 Article 20(2)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law. 7 Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.


* the Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption whereby the income and associated expenditure of certain foreign business operations is disregarded when determining Taxable Income (see Section 7.2.2)8

Where no exclusion or exemption applies, the foreign source income is taxable in the UAE. However, if taxes are paid in the foreign jurisdiction on the foreign source income, this may give rise to a Foreign Tax Credit, potentially reducing the Corporate Tax Payable in the UAE (see Section 8).9














































8 Article 24 of the Corporate Tax Law.
9 Article 44(2) read with Article 47 of the Corporate Tax Law.


4. What is foreign source income?

Foreign source income, for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law, is any income which has originated in a foreign jurisdiction and is earned or received by a Person in the UAE.

While such income may be subject to tax in the hands of certain Taxable Persons in the UAE (see Section 5), the Corporate Tax Law itself does not expressly define "foreign source income". It does, however, define State Sourced Income in Article 13, which is broadly, income considered to have been originated in or that is derived from the UAE. Conversely, foreign source income would typically be income derived from outside the UAE. Further, foreign source income could be accrued in or derived from activities performed, assets located, capital invested, rights used, or services performed or benefitted from outside the UAE.

4.1. Examples of foreign source income

A non-exhaustive list of income coming from a foreign source which may be considered for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law includes:
* dividends and other profit distributions from juridical Non-Resident Persons,
* income from the disposal of shares or capital of a juridical Non-Resident Persons,
* interest income from a loan or deposit outside the UAE,
* income from the sale of goods or provision of services outside the UAE,
* income from movable or immovable property located outside the UAE,
* royalties for use of intellectual or intangible property outside the UAE, and
* profits, or losses, of a Foreign Permanent Establishment of a Resident Person.

In all cases, income would not be considered as foreign source income if it is State Sourced Income.

4.2. Is income derived from a Free Zone Person foreign source income?

A Free Zone is a designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister. 10 Further, a Free Zone Person is defined as a juridical person incorporated, established or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.11

Since a Free Zone is an area within the UAE territory, income derived from a Free Zone Person will either be:

10 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
11 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.


* income derived from a Resident Person, or
* income derived from a Non-Resident Person that is attributable to a Permanent Establishment of that Non-Resident Person in the UAE.

Hence, income derived from a Free Zone Person does not qualify as foreign source income.

4.3. Is income derived by a Qualifying Free Zone Person from a Permanent Establishment foreign source income?

A Qualifying Free Zone Person may derive income or profits from a Domestic or Foreign Permanent Establishment.

Income or profits from a Domestic Permanent Establishment, which is a Permanent Establishment located in the mainland in the UAE, is not considered foreign source income.

Income or profits derived by a Qualifying Free Zone Person from its Foreign Permanent Establishment, which is a Permanent Establishment located outside the UAE, is foreign source income.


5. Who is subject to tax on foreign source income?

A Taxable Person may be either a Resident Person or a Non-Resident Person. A Resident Person or a Non-Resident Person can be either a juridical person or a natural person.

The income subject to Corporate Tax in the hands of a Taxable Person depends on that Person's legal status (i.e. juridical person or natural person), and their residence status (i.e. Resident Person or Non-Resident Person).12

The residence status together with the legal status determine (a) whether foreign source income is subject to Corporate Tax in the hands of a Taxable Person, and (b) the extent to which such income is subject to Corporate Tax.








































12 Article 12 of the Corporate Tax Law.


Figure 1: Taxation of foreign source income for a Taxable Person under the Corporate Tax Law






No	Yes	No


Yes



















* Wages, Personal Investment income, and Real Estate Investment income do not count as Turnover from a Business or Business Activity.
** If a natural person conducts a Business or Business Activity in the UAE, they are a Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law, subject to an applicable Double Taxation Agreement.
*** Subject to withholding tax, currently at a rate of 0%.


5.1. Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law

As noted above, a Resident Person is either a juridical person or a natural person. Whether they are subject to Corporate Tax on their foreign source income and the extent to which the UAE has taxing rights in relation to this income is discussed below.

5.1.1. Juridical person

A juridical person is considered as a Resident Person if it is incorporated in the UAE, or incorporated outside of the UAE but effectively managed and controlled in the UAE.13 It is subject to Corporate Tax on its worldwide income under the Corporate Tax Law, i.e. on:14
* income derived from the UAE, and
* income derived from outside the UAE.

Accordingly, a Resident Person which is a juridical person is subject to Corporate Tax on both its domestic and foreign source income. To mitigate or prevent potential double taxation of foreign source income, the Corporate Tax Law exempts certain types of foreign source income via the Participation Exemption (see Section 7.2.1) and the Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption (see Section 7.2.2). To the extent foreign source income is included in the Taxable Income of a Taxable Person, potential double taxation can be reduced or eliminated by way of a Foreign Tax Credit (see Section 8).

Further, the taxation of foreign source income in the hands of a Resident Person can be impacted by a Double Taxation Agreement under certain scenarios (see Section 5.3).

5.1.2. Natural person

A natural person is a Resident Person if they conduct a Business or Business Activity(ies) in the UAE15 that are not considered an excluded income for Corporate Tax purposes.16 Hence, such person is taxable on:17
* income derived from the UAE, and
* income derived from outside the UAE, insofar as it relates to the Business or Business Activity conducted by the natural person in the UAE.


13 Article 11(3)(a) and 11(3)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.
14 Article 12(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
15 Article 11(3)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
16 Wages, Personal Investment income and Real Estate Investment income, irrespective of their source, are excluded.
17 Article 12(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


In other words, a natural person is subject to Corporate Tax on foreign source income if it is related to their Business or Business Activity(ies) in the UAE.

Accordingly, if a natural person, whether they are a Resident Person or a Non- Resident Person, carries on a wholly separate Business in a foreign jurisdiction, which does not relate to their Business or Business Activity conducted in the UAE, the income from the Business in the foreign jurisdiction will not be taxable in the UAE.

Wages, Personal Investment income and Real Estate Investment income are not subject to Corporate Tax, irrespective of their source.18 Furthermore, natural persons are only subject to Corporate Tax if the total Turnover derived from their Business or Business Activity(ies) exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year.19










Business
Nature of Business Activity
Turnover	from Business (Amount in AED)
Brokerage
Mr A sets up a sole proprietor Business
800,000
services
for
in
the
UAE
rendering
brokerage

commercial
services for commercial properties to

properties
various clients in the UAE as well as


outside the UAE.

Interior services
design
Business carried out by Mr A entirely in Country U and the services are rendered to various clients in Country U.
2,000,000

The employees, assets, bank accounts, and offices for this Business are separate from the brokerage Business and are based in Country U.





18 Article 2(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
19 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.


Businesses or Business Activities conducted by a natural person, whether resident or non-resident, are subject to Corporate Tax only where the total Turnover derived from such Businesses or Business Activities exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year.20

In this example, Mr A conducts two Businesses. The brokerage Business is conducted by Mr A in the UAE. The interior design Business is a wholly separate Business, unconnected to the brokerage Business, conducted outside of the UAE using separate employees, assets, bank accounts, and offices.

Mr. A, being a Resident Person under Article 11(3)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law, will be subject to Corporate Tax on both UAE and foreign source income derived from the brokerage Business, if Turnover from this Business exceeds AED 1 million. The income derived from interior design services will not be subject to Corporate Tax since it is a separate Business conducted wholly outside the UAE.21

Accordingly, only the domestic and foreign Turnover from the Business conducted in the UAE that is not Wage, Personal Investment income or Real Estate Investment income, is considered for calculating the Turnover threshold of AED 1 million. In this case, the Turnover from the brokerage Business conducted in the UAE is AED 800,000, which is below AED 1 million. Hence, Mr A is not subject to Corporate Tax and is not required to register for Corporate Tax.









Business
Nature of Business Activity
Manufacture and sale of paper
* Mr B has a factory in Country B which manufactures paper. The labour, raw materials and assets required for this activity are entirely in Country B.
* The product is sold to third party customers and is also used by Mr B in his paper craft Business.
Manufacture and sale of paper craft items
* Mr B has a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE under which various paper craft items (typically decorative items) are prepared in the UAE and sold both in and outside the UAE.


20 Article 11(6) read with Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
21 Article 11(3)(c) read with Article 11(6), Article 12(2) and Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.



* The paper used as raw material for the manufacture of craft items is manufactured by Mr B in Country B. However, the labour, assets and factory required for the craft Business are entirely in the UAE and are separate from the paper Business.

Mr B conducts a Business or Business Activity in the UAE. Hence, he qualifies as a Resident Person under Article 11(3)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law. Accordingly, he is subject to tax on income derived from a UAE source and also foreign source income to the extent it relates to his Business in the UAE.22
* Since the manufacturing and sale of paper crafts items is conducted in the UAE, income from items sold in the UAE as well as outside the UAE will be subject to Corporate Tax.
* The Business of manufacturing and selling paper is conducted using independent resources in Country B. The labour, raw materials and assets required for this activity are entirely in Country B and hence is a separate Business conducted outside the UAE. Merely because the product from this Business is used as a raw material in the Business of craft items does not imply that it is the same Business.

Based on the available information, the income from the craft paper Business would be subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE and income from the Business of manufacturing and selling paper would not be subject to Corporate Tax.

Note:
* For the purposes of this example, it is assumed that the total Turnover of Mr B from his Business or Business Activity conducted in the UAE (i.e. paper crafts business) exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year.
* The analysis above may differ under a Double Taxation Agreement as the application of the Agreement might impact the residence status. Refer to Section 5.3.




22 Article 11(3)(c), Article 11(6) and Article 12(2) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.



Income derived from the UAE
Corporate Tax implications


* Income from Business Activity: Mr C has an office in the UAE to meet and conduct meetings with his UAE clients of his fashion design Business.
Mr C is conducting a Business in the UAE. Hence, he will be treated as a Resident Person for Corporate Tax purposes and income generated from consulting clients in the UAE will be subject to Corporate Tax, provided the total Turnover from Mr C's Business or Business Activities conducted in the UAE exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year.23


* Rental income: Mr C has an apartment in the UAE that he has rented out to earn rental income for which he does not require a Licence from a Licensing Authority. The apartment is not used to conduct his Business.
The rental income from the apartment will be treated as Real Estate Investment income and, hence, is not be subject to Corporate Tax.24


Mr C earns the following income from Country C:

Income derived from Country C
Corporate Tax implications


* Wages from working part time for an employer based in Country C.
Although Mr C is a Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law, Mr C's wages will not be subject to Corporate Tax, as Corporate Tax does not apply to a natural person's salary, wages and other employment income.25


* Rental income from an apartment in Country C not used for Business purposes.
Although Mr C is a Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law, the rental income from the apartment, which does not require a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE, will be treated as Real Estate Investment income and, therefore, will not be subject to Corporate Tax.26


23 Article 11(6) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023. 24 Article 11(6) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023. 25 Article 11(6) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023. 26 Article 11(6) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.




5.2. Non-Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law

As noted above, a Non-Resident Person can be a juridical person or a natural person. Whether such Persons are subject to Corporate Tax on their foreign source income and the extent to which the UAE has taxing rights on such foreign source income is discussed below.

5.2.1. Juridical person

A juridical person is a Non-Resident Person if it is incorporated or formed outside the UAE and not effectively managed and controlled in the UAE. Such person is a Taxable Person to the extent it:27
* has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE;
* derives UAE sourced income; or
* has a nexus in the UAE.28

A juridical person that is a Non-Resident Person is subject to Corporate Tax on the following:29
* Taxable Income attributable to its UAE Permanent Establishment.
* State Sourced Income that is not attributable to its UAE Permanent Establishment.
* Taxable Income that is attributable to its UAE nexus.

State Sourced Income and UAE nexus income are, by their nature, not foreign source income as there is a link present with the UAE. Therefore, a Non-Resident Person, which is a juridical person, can only have foreign source income if it has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

Where a Non-Resident Person, which is a juridical person, has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, it will be subject to Corporate Tax on Taxable Income attributable to that Permanent Establishment.30 Taxable Income, irrespective of its source (i.e. whether derived from the UAE or a foreign jurisdiction) will be subject to Corporate Tax if it is attributable to its Permanent Establishment in the UAE. In other words, a Non-Resident Person can be subject to Corporate Tax on foreign source

27 Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
28 Article 11(4)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law read with Cabinet Decision No. 56 of 2023.
29 Article 12(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
30 Article 12(3)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.


income provided the foreign source income is attributable to its Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

Example	4:	Foreign	source	income	attributable	to	UAE	Permanent Establishment


Country Y


Country X



UAE


Loan







Company A is incorporated in and tax resident of Country X. It is managed outside the UAE but has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE ("UAE PE"). Therefore, Company A is a Non-Resident Person under the UAE Corporate Tax Law.

UAE PE has made a loan to Company G (a company incorporated in and tax resident of Country Y). The security/collateral on the loan is an immovable property situated outside the UAE.

The Interest received by the UAE PE on the loan does not have a UAE source since:31
* the loan is not secured by Immovable Property located in the UAE,
* the borrower (i.e. Company G) is not a Resident Person, and
* the borrower (i.e. Company G) is not a Government Entity.

However, since the foreign source Interest income is attributable to Company A's Permanent Establishment in the UAE, the Interest will be subject to Corporate Tax in the hands of Company A's Permanent Establishment in the UAE.







31 As per Article 13(2)(g) of the Corporate Tax Law, Interest income is UAE sourced if the loan is secured by movable or immovable property located in the UAE; or the is secured by movable or immovable property located in the State; or the borrower is a Government Entity.


5.2.2. Natural person

As noted above, a natural person who conducts a Business or Business Activity in the UAE is a Resident Person and will be subject to Corporate Tax (see Section 5.1.2).32

A natural person, who is not a Resident Person, is a Non-Resident Person if they:33
* have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE and a Turnover attributable to their Permanent Establishment that exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year; or
* derive State Sourced Income.

State Sourced Income is not considered foreign source income as there is a link present with the UAE. Therefore, a Non-Resident Person, which is a natural person, can only have foreign source income if they have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE (with a Turnover exceeding AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year) and the foreign source income is attributable to its Permanent Establishment in the UAE.

5.3. Impact of Double Taxation Agreements on foreign source income

A Double Taxation Agreement takes precedence over the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law to the extent there is any inconsistency between the agreement and the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.34 Therefore, meeting the definition of a Resident Person under the Corporate Tax Law, i.e. referred to in the agreement as UAE domestic law, does not automatically mean that a Resident Person will be tax resident in the UAE where a Double Taxation Agreement applies. Residence may be assigned to the UAE or another jurisdiction under an applicable Double Taxation Agreement. This impacts the taxation of foreign source income.

For instance, where an applicable Double Taxation Agreement assigns residence to another jurisdiction, that foreign jurisdiction will have the taxing right as a residence country over the income of that Person. In this situation, the UAE would not have a taxing right over any income of that Person unless that income is sourced from the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law and to the extent the taxing right is allocated to the UAE under the applicable Double Taxation Agreement.









32 Article 11(3)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
33 Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
34 Article 66 of the Corporate Tax Law.


6. When does foreign source income become taxable in the UAE?
As noted above in Section 5, whether a Person is taxable on their foreign source income depends on their legal status (juridical person or natural person) and tax residence status (Resident Person or Non-Resident Person).

Once it is determined that the UAE has the taxing rights with respect to the foreign source income received by a Taxable Person and that income is subject to Corporate Tax, it is pertinent to determine the Tax Period in which such foreign source income would be subject to Corporate Tax.

For a juridical person, the Tax Period is the 12-month period for which the person prepares its Financial Statements.35 A juridical person can make an application to the FTA to change its Tax Period or use a different Tax Period.36 However, for a natural person, the Tax Period is always the Gregorian calendar year, or a part thereof if the Business is conducted only for part of the Gregorian calendar year.

The timing of taxation of foreign source income follows the general income attribution rules of the Corporate Tax Law. Accordingly, the timing of taxation of foreign source income depends on whether the Taxable Person has adopted the Cash Basis or Accrual Basis of Accounting (see Sections 7.1.1 and 7.1.2).
* Cash Basis of Accounting is a method under which the Taxable Person recognises income and expenditure as and when cash payments are received and paid;37
* Accrual Basis of Accounting is a method under which the Taxable Person recognises income when earned and expenditure when incurred,38 i.e. revenue and costs may be recorded in the Financial Statements before or after the cash payments are received or paid. Financial Statements must be prepared based on IFRS or IFRS for SMEs (see Section 7.1.1 below).39












35 Article 57(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
36 Article 58 of the Corporate Tax Law read with FTA Decision No. 5 of 2023.
37 Article 1 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
38 Article 1 of Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023.
39 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.


7. How is foreign source income taxed?

7.1. Determining Taxable Income

Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law provides general rules for determining the Taxable Income of a Taxable Person.

The accounting net profit, or loss, as per the Financial Statements is the starting point for determining Taxable Income for a particular Tax Period, which is then adjusted as required, for example for all exemptions, reliefs, other deductions, non-deductible expenditure, tax loss relief, etc.40

The general rules for determining Taxable Income apply equally to foreign source income earned by a Taxable Person.

7.1.1. Applicable Accounting Standards

For the purposes of the UAE Corporate Tax Law, a Taxable Person is required to prepare Financial Statements based on IFRS. Where the Revenue of the Taxable Person does not exceed AED 50 million, they may choose to apply IFRS for SMEs instead.41 Revenue is defined as the gross amount of income derived by a Taxable Person during a Tax Period.42

Accordingly, where a Taxable Person earns or receives foreign source income, they are required to apply the same Accounting Standards as required for domestic (i.e. UAE) income.

7.1.2. Cash Basis of Accounting

While Taxable Persons are generally required to use the Accrual Basis of Accounting, they may use the Cash Basis of Accounting where their Revenue does not exceed AED 3 million, or in exceptional circumstances pursuant to an application submitted to the FTA.43

Accordingly, a Taxable Person can apply the Cash Basis of Accounting where total Revenue (i.e. Revenue from UAE and foreign sources) generated for a Tax Period does not exceed AED 3 million.



40 Article 20(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
41 Article 4 of the Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
42 Definition in Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
43 Article 2 of the Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.



Example 5: Revenue derived from UAE and foreign sources

Company A (a company incorporated and resident in the UAE) is in the business of distributing consumer products worldwide. During the Tax Period from 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024, it received the following:
* AED 1,500,000 - sales revenue from customers in the UAE.
* AED 900,000 - sales revenue from customers in Country S.
* AED 500,000 - Dividend from Company B, a wholly owned subsidiary in the UAE.
* AED 110,000 - Dividend from Company F, a wholly owned subsidiary incorporated and resident in Country S.

It is assumed that the ownership interest held by Company A in Company F qualifies as a Participating Interest under Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Since the Revenue accrued by Company A from all the above sources exceeds AED 3,000,000 (i.e. AED 3,010,000 in total), it cannot adopt the Cash Basis of Accounting. It is irrelevant that its total Revenue from foreign sources (AED 900,000 plus AED 110,000) does not exceed the prescribed threshold of AED 3,000,000, as Revenue is calculated on a worldwide basis.

Additionally, whilst the Dividends received from its subsidiaries (Company B and Company F) are not taxable as they are Exempt Income,44 such receipts still count towards the Revenue threshold of AED 3,000,000 for the purposes of determining whether it can adopt Cash Basis of Accounting.

7.1.3. Expenditure and losses relating to foreign source income

The general rules for determining Taxable Income apply in relation to foreign source income. Namely, any expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for Business purposes is normally allowable as a deduction. There are exceptions such as costs relating to Exempt Income, for example, costs incurred to acquire a Participating Interest in a foreign Participation. Any loss incurred would be offset in accordance with the normal rules. 45 Note that expenditure associated with a Foreign Permanent Establishment is not deductible where a Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption election has been made under Article 24 of the Corporate Tax Law (see Section 7.2.2).




44 Exempt under Article 22(1) in respect of Dividend income from a juridical Resident Person and Article 22(2) in respect of Dividend from a foreign Participation.
45 As per Article 20(2)(d) and 20(2)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 6: Expenses and losses relating to foreign source income

Company G (a company incorporated and resident in the UAE) is engaged in the export of electronic items and has earned foreign source income and incurred expenses during the relevant Tax Period as follows:


Item
Amount (in AED)
Income from the export of goods
20 million
Dividends received from foreign Participation
5 million
Less: Cost of goods sold
(10 million)
Less: Marketing and distribution cost
(15 million)
Less: Expense incurred in managing investments in foreign Participations
(0.5 million)
Accounting net profit/(loss)
(0.5 million)

To determine the Taxable Income of Company G:

* Dividends received from a foreign Participation are exempt under the Participation Exemption.46 Hence, the Dividend income (i.e. AED 5 million) and expense incurred to earn the Dividend, which is an Exempt Income, (i.e. AED
0.5 million) will not be considered in determining Taxable Income.
* As a consequence, the income less expenses results in a loss of AED 5 million. This loss can be carried forward and set off in subsequent years.47

7.1.4. Aggregation of foreign income and expenditure

Taxable Income and deductible expenditure from all sources, whether domestic or foreign, are aggregated for the purposes of calculating Taxable Income. Thus, Tax Losses from a foreign source can be offset against income from UAE sources when determining Taxable Income. This excludes expenses relating to Exempt Income (for instance foreign Dividends which qualify for the Participation Exemption) and losses or expenses relating to a Foreign Permanent Establishment where an election has been made under Article 24 of the Corporate Tax Law (see Section 7.2.2).







46 Article 22(2) read with Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.
47 As per Article 37 and Article 39 of the Corporate Tax Law.



Example 7: Net loss in relation to foreign source income

Company A (a company incorporated and resident in the UAE) distributes consumer products in the UAE and also exports to Country S. Its sales to Country S do not constitute a Permanent Establishment in Country S. During the Tax Period from 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024, it received/incurred the following:

UAE-related:
* AED 5,000,000 - sales revenue from customers in the UAE.
* AED 2,000,000 - costs in relation to domestic sales.

Country S-related:
* AED 2,000,000 - sales revenue from customers in Country S.
* AED 3,500,000 - costs in relation to Country S sales, including loss due to fire which destroyed stock destined for Country S customers.

Company A makes a net profit of AED 3,000,000 with respect to its UAE operations, whereas it made a net loss of AED 1,500,000 with respect to its foreign source income from Country S.

Company A is required to aggregate all its domestic and foreign income and costs to calculate its Taxable Income. Thus, in this case, the overall Taxable Income of Company A would be AED 1,500,000.

Note that Company A does not qualify for Small Business Relief in the Tax Period ending 31 December 2024 because its Revenue exceeds AED 3 million.

7.1.5. Income in foreign currency to be converted to AED

It is likely that most foreign source income will be in a currency other than AED. It is also possible that financial records relating to foreign business operations are in the local currency of the foreign jurisdiction.

For the purposes of determining Taxable Income and Corporate Tax, amounts quantified in foreign currency have to be converted into AED based on the applicable exchange rate published by the Central Bank of the UAE, as follows:48
* spot rates, based on currency exchange markets, where it is reasonable to do so;
* monthly average rates where it is not reasonable to use spot rates and using a monthly average provides a reasonable approximation of Corporate Tax Payable; or

48 Article 43 of the Corporate Tax Law read with Article 13(1) of FTA Decision No. 13 of 2023.


* yearly average exchange rates where it is not reasonable to use spot rates or monthly average rates.

The method adopted to convert amounts from foreign currency to AED should be used consistently throughout a Tax Period.49 A Taxable Person is required to keep records of the reason for the currency translation method selected and the rates used.50

If a change to the currency conversion method is made in a subsequent Tax Period, a Taxable Person is required to keep records of the reason(s) for the change.51

7.2. Exemptions of particular relevance for foreign source income

7.2.1. Participation Exemption

Certain income in relation to a Participating Interest is exempt from Corporate Tax if it meets the conditions set out in Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law. A Participating Interest is a significant ownership interest in a juridical person. Various conditions including minimum 5% ownership or minimum acquisition cost of AED 4 million and a 12-month holding period are required to be satisfied. The exemption covers, amongst other income, Dividends and other profit distributions, as well as capital gains or losses from the transfer, sale or other disposal of a Participating Interest.52

If a Resident Person has a Foreign Permanent Establishment (see Section 7.2.2), and has utilised a Tax Loss incurred in that Foreign Permanent Establishment, that Tax Loss must be fully offset by the Taxable Income from the Foreign Permanent Establishment in a subsequent Tax Period or Tax Periods before the Taxable Person can elect to apply the Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption. 53 Where a Foreign Permanent Establishment is incorporated before the previously utilised Tax Loss is fully offset, any Dividends or other income arising upon or following incorporation of the Foreign Permanent Establishment cannot benefit from the Participation Exemption until such income offsets the entirety of the previously utilised Tax Loss.54








49 Article 2(2) of FTA Decision No. 13 of 2023.
50 Article 2(3) of FTA Decision No. 13 of 2023.
51 Article 2(4) of FTA Decision No. 13 of 2023.
52 Articles 22(2) and Article 22(3) read with Article 23 of the Corporate Tax Law.
53 Article 13(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
54 Article 13(2) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.


7.2.2. Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption

7.2.2.1. Overview

A Resident Person can make an election to disregard the income and associated expenditure of its Foreign Permanent Establishment while determining the Resident Person's Taxable Income.55 This is subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, as discussed below.

7.2.2.2. Conditions	for	claiming	Foreign	Permanent	Establishment exemption

For the purpose of this exemption, the Foreign Permanent Establishment must meet the conditions of Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law if the foreign activities were carried on in the UAE.56

A Resident Person can elect to disregard the income and associated expenditure of its Foreign Permanent Establishments while determining its Taxable Income if those Permanent Establishments are subject to Corporate Tax, or a tax of a similar character, at a rate not less than 9% under the applicable tax legislation of the foreign jurisdiction in which it is located.57 If this condition is not satisfied, the net income derived from the Foreign Permanent Establishment would not be eligible for the Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption.

An election for the exemption applies to all Foreign Permanent Establishments of the Resident Person that meet the required conditions. 58 A Resident Person having multiple Foreign Permanent Establishments cannot choose different treatments for different Foreign Permanent Establishments. In other words, if a Resident Person wishes to claim exemption from Corporate Tax for one of its Foreign Permanent Establishments, all of its other Foreign Permanent Establishments will be exempt as well, provided they meet the condition above, prescribed under Article 24(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.

However, if Tax Losses incurred in a Foreign Permanent Establishment have been previously offset against other profits (for example, from the head office), an election

55 Article 24(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
56 Conditions of Article 14 have to be applied in the relevant context when reading Article 24 of the Corporate Tax Law i.e. the expression "Resident Person" shall be used instead of the expression "Non-Resident Person" and the expression "outside the State" shall be used instead of the expression "in the State".
57 Article 24(7) of the Corporate Tax Law.
58 Article 24(6) of the Corporate Tax Law.


under Article 24 of the Corporate Tax Law is not permitted until that Tax Loss is fully offset by the Taxable Income from that Foreign Permanent Establishment in a subsequent Tax Period or Tax Periods.59

7.2.2.3. Implications of electing for Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption

Where a Resident Person makes an election for the Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption, it applies to all Foreign Permanent Establishments. 60 Thus, it is not possible to choose to include some, but not all, Foreign Permanent Establishments. An exception would be any Permanent Establishments which do not qualify for the exemption due to failing the requirement to be subject to a sufficient level of tax.

Where the Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption applies, the following are not taken into account in determining Taxable Income:61
* losses of the Foreign Permanent Establishment,
* income and the associated expenditure of the Foreign Permanent Establishment, and
* Foreign Tax Credits in relation to the Foreign Permanent Establishment.

Each Foreign Permanent Establishment is treated as an independent Person, separate from the UAE head office, meaning Taxable Income for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law is calculated as if each Foreign Permanent Establishment is a separate Person. 62 The net income of all Foreign Permanent Establishments is exempted when determining the Taxable Income of the Resident Person i.e. the UAE head office.

Regarding the allocation of profit, a Foreign Permanent Establishment is deemed to be a Related Party of the UAE head office.63 Therefore, any transactions between a Foreign Permanent Establishment and its UAE head office, or other Related Parties of the UAE head office, must be in line with the arm's length principle (transfer pricing provisions) under Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law (i.e. pricing at arm's length).









59 Article 13(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 116 of 2023.
60 Article 24(6) of the Corporate Tax Law. 61 Article 24(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 62 Article 24(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
63 Article 35(1)(d) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 8: Related Party transactions (transfer of assets and repatriation of funds)

Company A (a company incorporated and resident in the UAE) has set up a clothes- manufacturing unit (branch office) in Country B which constitutes a Foreign Permanent Establishment. It also has a subsidiary, Company U, which is a company incorporated and resident in Country U.

To enhance clothes manufacturing, machinery is transferred from Company U to Company A's Foreign Permanent Establishment in Country B.

At the end of the Tax Period the Foreign Permanent Establishment repatriates its profit to its head office i.e. Company A.

Whilst legally the Foreign Permanent Establishment is part of Company A, for Corporate Tax purposes it is treated as a separate and independent Person which is related to the head office and any other Related Party of the head office. Thus, when determining the profit which could benefit from the Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption, the transfer of the asset from Company U to the Foreign Permanent Establishment of Company A must be in line with the arm's length principle.

The repatriation of surplus funds from the branch in Country B to its head office in in the UAE is receipt of own funds by Company A since branch and head office are the same legal person. Hence, the repatriation transaction is not a taxable event from the perspective of Company A and is ignored for Corporate Tax purposes. This is the case whether or not an election has been made for the Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption.

7.3. Determining Corporate Tax Payable

The Corporate Tax Law does not prescribe any separate Corporate Tax rates for foreign source income. Thus, foreign source income is aggregated with all other income when determining Taxable Income. For a Taxable Person, other than a Qualifying Free Zone Person, the applicable rates currently are:64
* 0% for Taxable Income up to and including AED 375,000; and
* 9% for Taxable Income exceeding AED 375,000.

Where a Taxable Person has paid foreign tax in another jurisdiction, a tax credit may be available.65 Refer to Section 8 for details.

64 Article 3(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
65 Article 47 of the Corporate Tax Law.


8. Foreign Tax Credit

8.1. What is Foreign Tax Credit?

As discussed in Section 5, Resident Persons or Non-Resident Persons with a Permanent Establishment in the UAE are subject to tax on foreign source income. To mitigate or prevent potential double taxation of foreign source income, the Corporate Tax Law exempts certain types of foreign source income through the Participation Exemption (see Section 7.2.1) and the Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption (see Section 7.2.2). However, to the extent foreign source income is nevertheless included in the Taxable Income of a Taxable Person, potential double taxation can be reduced or eliminated by way of a Foreign Tax Credit.

A Foreign Tax Credit allows a Taxable Person to deduct taxes paid under the tax laws of a foreign jurisdiction from the UAE Corporate Tax due on the same income.66

8.1.1. Foreign taxes for which Foreign Tax Credit is available

A Foreign Tax Credit is available for any foreign tax that is of a similar character to Corporate Tax. The following conditions should be all satisfied for a foreign tax to be considered of similar character to Corporate Tax:
* The foreign tax is imposed by and payable to the government (federal or state government) of a foreign jurisdiction.
* Payment of the foreign tax is compulsory and enforceable by tax laws in that foreign jurisdiction.
* The foreign tax is imposed on profit or net income (i.e. income less deductions). Foreign withholding tax is deemed to meet this requirement.

The provisions of any applicable Double Taxation Agreement shall be taken into consideration when determining which foreign taxes are eligible for a Foreign Tax Credit (see Section 8.5).

The following factors are not relevant in determining if a foreign tax is of similar character to Corporate Tax:
* whether the amount is imposed under a separate legislation from the primary taxing legislation of the foreign jurisdiction;
* the name given to the tax paid in the foreign jurisdiction; and
* the method by which an amount is collected: even if a foreign jurisdiction collects an amount by way of a withholding tax mechanism, such tax remains creditable if it is a tax levied by the foreign jurisdiction on business income.


The following is a non-exhaustive list of taxes that are not considered to be of a similar character to Corporate Tax:
* consumption taxes such as value added tax, goods and services tax, or sales tax,
* customs duty or excise tax or other forms of import duties,
* transaction taxes such as stamp tax and capital duty,
* property taxes and wealth taxes calculated based on ownership of specified items or value of assets without regard to income, and
* estate tax or other forms of inheritance taxes and duties.

Some jurisdictions may impose taxes calculated on multiple components to the tax base: some taxes on income and others on non-income elements. The other taxes levied in a foreign jurisdiction may be in respect of a taxpayer's activities in that jurisdiction and be administratively and conceptually part of the system of corporate taxation in that foreign jurisdiction. Where such taxes are predominately a tax on a taxpayer's income, and it would be administratively burdensome to split its income and non-income components, provided the amount can meet the other conditions outlined above and none of the exclusions apply, then such taxes should be treated as being of similar character to UAE Corporate Tax. An example of a tax with multiple components is the corporate Zakat levied by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Zakat operates as a tax on income or equity or both and will, therefore, be considered as similar to Corporate Tax.

Amounts paid to a foreign government as interest, fines, penalties, or any similar obligation are not taxes imposed on income, but instead are levied due to defaults such as late payment of tax. Hence, such amounts paid in a foreign jurisdiction are not similar in essence to Corporate Tax and do not qualify for Foreign Tax Credit.

8.1.2. When will foreign tax be considered as "paid"?

A Foreign Tax Credit is potentially available with respect to tax "paid" under the tax law of a foreign jurisdiction. In this regard, "paid" means the following:
* The amount that has been remitted to the tax authorities in the foreign jurisdiction; or
* The amount that has accrued to the tax authorities in the foreign jurisdiction and as such represents a committed amount to the foreign tax authority but it is not yet paid.

A Taxable Person is required to maintain all necessary records for the purposes of claiming a Foreign Tax Credit (see Section 8.6).67 If a Taxable Person has claimed Foreign Tax Credit for a Tax Period, they should be able to provide proof of the tax paid to the foreign tax authority, if requested by the FTA.



The amount would not be considered as "paid" to the foreign tax authority under the following scenarios:
* where the tax liability in the foreign jurisdiction is contingent or not yet formally accrued (for example a foreign tax authority has assessed higher taxable income but the Person has challenged the assessment before court or judicial authorities and a final decision has not been issued yet); or
* where the amount of tax paid in a foreign jurisdiction has been refunded or has been confirmed as being refundable.

It is possible that a Taxable Person has claimed a Foreign Tax Credit with respect to tax paid in a foreign jurisdiction but that tax is subsequently refunded in the foreign jurisdiction. This will result in a reduction of the Foreign Tax Credit available to the Taxable Person under the Corporate Tax Law. Where this results in an increase in Corporate Tax Payable in excess of AED 10,000, the Taxable Person must submit a Voluntary Disclosure to the FTA within 20 Business Days from the date when the Taxable Person became aware of the repayment of foreign tax in the foreign jurisdiction.68

If the increase in Corporate Tax Payable is AED 10,000 or less, the Taxable Person must correct the Foreign Tax Credit claim in the earlier of the following:
* the Tax Return that has become due for submission for a previous Tax Period; or
* the Tax Return for the Tax Period in which foreign tax is refunded.69

If, conversely, the foreign tax paid increases with the result that a higher Foreign Tax Credit could be claimed, a Taxable Person may submit a Voluntary Disclosure,70 along with an application for a Corporate Tax refund. The FTA will then assess the impact of the higher Foreign Tax Credit on the Taxable Person's Corporate Tax position.71

8.2. Who can claim Foreign Tax Credit?

Where foreign source income is taxable under the Corporate Tax Law, a Taxable Person can claim a Foreign Tax Credit for tax paid on this income in a foreign jurisdiction. As discussed in Section 5, foreign source income is taxable for the following Taxable Persons:
* Resident juridical person;





68 Article 10(1)(a) of Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023.
69 Article 10(1)(b) of Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023.
70 Article 10(1) or Article 10(2) of the Tax Procedures Law.


* Resident natural person to the extent such foreign source income relates to a Business or Business Activities conducted by the natural person in the UAE if the total Turnover exceeds AED 1 million in the Gregorian calendar year; and
* Non-Resident Person having a Permanent Establishment in the UAE and the foreign source income is attributable to the Permanent Establishment.

Example 9: Foreign Tax Credit in hands of a Non-Resident Person

Country X	Country Y


UAE



UAE PE

Loan




Interest payment


Company A is incorporated in and tax resident in Country X. It is managed outside the UAE but has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE (UAE PE). Therefore, Company A is a Non-Resident Person under UAE Corporate Tax Law.

The UAE PE of Company A has granted a loan to Company G, resident in Country
Y. The Interest on the loan is foreign source income attributable to Company A's Permanent Establishment in the UAE. The Interest income is subject to withholding tax in Country Y at the time of payment to Company A's Permanent Establishment in UAE.

The Corporate Tax Payable by Company A's UAE Permanent Establishment on the foreign source income can be reduced by a Foreign Tax Credit in respect of taxes paid in Country Y, subject to conditions on calculation set out in Section 8.3.

8.3. How to calculate the Foreign Tax Credit

8.3.1. General

The Foreign Tax Credit cannot exceed the amount of UAE Corporate Tax due on the relevant foreign income.72 Thus, the amount of Foreign Tax Credit is the lower of the following:



* The actual amount of tax paid on foreign source income in the foreign jurisdiction.
- Foreign tax paid is likely to be in a currency other than AED. For the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law, any amount quantified in another currency must be converted to AED (see Section 7.1.5).73
And
* The amount of the Corporate Tax due on the foreign source income.
- Since Corporate Tax applies to income on a net basis, the net foreign source income is to be determined by deducting economically linked expenditure from the relevant income. The deductibility of expenditure will be in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.74 It is possible that the foreign country has taxed the foreign source income on a gross basis, particularly in the case of withholding tax. However, since the Corporate Tax Law taxes income net of expenses, a Foreign Tax Credit is to be determined on net foreign source income.
- Foreign Tax Credit is not available in respect of Exempt Income such as foreign Dividends exempt in the UAE under the Participation Exemption, even if taxes on such income have been withheld in the foreign jurisdiction. Similarly, Foreign Tax Credit will not be available if the Taxable Person has a loss position under the Corporate Tax Law (see Section 8.3.4).
- As there are two rates of Corporate Tax in the UAE (i.e. 0% and 9%),75 the Corporate Tax due on foreign source income is to be determined on a weighted average basis using the following formula:
Corporate Tax due on relevant foreign source income = X*Y
Z
X= Corporate Tax due on total Taxable Income of the Taxable Person before any Foreign Tax Credit
Y= Relevant foreign source income
Z= Total Taxable Income of the Taxable Person


73 Article 43 of the Corporate Tax Law.
74 Deductions as specified under Chapter 9 of the Corporate Tax Law.


Item
Amount (AED)
Taxable Income (including foreign source income of AED 1
million)
10,000,000
Corporate Tax due on Taxable Income
[(10,000,000 - 375,000) * 9%]
866,250
Less: Foreign Tax Credit:
[lower of the following:
* AED 50,000 (being the actual amount of foreign tax paid in the foreign jurisdiction)
* AED 86,625 [866,250 * 1 million / 10 million] (being the amount of the UAE Corporate Tax due on the foreign source income)]



(50,000)
Corporate Tax Payable
816,250

8.3.2. Unutilised Foreign Tax Credit

Any unutilised Foreign Tax Credit cannot be carried forward to future Tax Periods or carried back to earlier Tax Periods. 76 Thus, unutilised Foreign Tax Credit will be forfeited. Further, a deduction from taxable profits for the unutilised Foreign Tax Credit is not possible.77

















Item
Amount (AED)
Foreign source income
1,000,000
Less: Expenditure
200,000
Taxable Income
800,000
Corporate Tax due on Taxable Income [(800,000 -
375,000) * 9%]
38,250

76 Article 47(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
77 Article 33(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Less: Foreign Tax Credit:
[lower of the following:
* AED 100,000 (being the actual amount of foreign tax paid in the foreign jurisdiction)
* AED 38,250 (being the amount of the Corporate
Tax due on the foreign source income)]


(38,250)
Corporate Tax Payable
0
Balance unutilised Foreign Tax Credit (which will be
forfeited)
61,750

8.3.3. Income-by-income approach: multiple sources of foreign income

The Foreign Tax Credit cannot exceed the amount of Corporate Tax due on the "relevant" foreign income.78 The use of the term "relevant" indicates that a Foreign Tax Credit is to be calculated on an income-by-income basis. Thus, where a Taxable Person has multiple sources of foreign income, the excess Foreign Tax Credit of one foreign source income cannot be set off against the Corporate Tax due on another foreign source income.









Item
Foreign source income
(net of expense) (AED)
Foreign tax (AED)
Interest earned from
Country X
100,000
1,000
Royalty earned from
Country Y
500,000
50,000
Total
600,000
51,000






Item
Amount (AED)
Taxable Income
600,000
Corporate Tax due on Taxable Income [(600,000-
375,000) * 9%]
20,250
Less: Foreign Tax Credit for tax paid in Country X
(1,000)


[lower of the following:
* AED 1,000 (being the actual amount of foreign tax paid in the foreign jurisdiction)
* AED 3,375 [100,000/600,000 of 20,250] (being the
amount of the Corporate Tax due on the foreign source income)]

Less: Foreign Tax Credit for tax paid in Country Y [lower of the following:
* AED 50,000 (being the actual amount of foreign tax paid in the foreign jurisdiction)
* AED 16,875 [500,000/600,000 of 20,250] (being
the amount of the Corporate Tax due on the foreign source income)]



(16,875)
Corporate Tax Payable
2,375
Unutilised Foreign Tax Credit in relation to foreign tax
paid in Country Y (which is forfeited)
33,125





8.3.4. Scenarios where no Foreign Tax Credit is allowed

A Foreign Tax Credit cannot exceed the amount of Corporate Tax due on the relevant foreign income.79 Accordingly, where there is no Corporate Tax Payable on foreign source income, no Foreign Tax Credit is allowed against such income. Therefore, a Foreign Tax Credit is not available in respect of Exempt Income. Likewise, a Foreign Tax Credit is not available where no Corporate Tax is payable due to an election for Small Business Relief or a natural person's Turnover being below AED 1 million. This is also the case where foreign source income is Qualifying Income of a Qualifying Free Zone Person, i.e. subject to 0% Corporate Tax.

Also, where a Taxable Person's Taxable Income is negative, i.e. they make a loss, there is no Corporate Tax Payable. In such a case, if Taxable Income includes foreign source income on which tax has been paid in the foreign jurisdiction, no Foreign Tax Credit is available in the absence of any Corporate Tax Payable.












Item
Taxable Income (AED)
UAE source net income / (loss)
(1,000,000)
Net interest income from Country X
500,000
Net Taxable Income/(loss)
(500,000)














80 Article 47(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.
81 Under Article 2(1)(j) of Ministerial Decision No. 265 of 2023, treasury and financing services by a Qualifying Free Zone Person to its Related Parties is a Qualifying Activity.
82 Article 3(1)(b) of Cabinet Decision No. 100 of 2023.




8.4. Timing mismatches

Corporate Tax due can be reduced by the amount of a Foreign Tax Credit for the "relevant Tax Period".83 However, there may be a mismatch of relevant Tax Periods between the UAE and the foreign jurisdiction. For instance, the foreign source income may be taxed at a different time or on a different basis in the UAE and the foreign jurisdiction (for example, cash basis vs accrual basis).

To address any timing mismatch issues, a symmetrical approach is applied, where foreign tax paid follows the corresponding foreign source income on which such tax is paid. Accordingly, credit for foreign tax paid will be allowed in the Tax Period in which the foreign source income forms part of Taxable Income under the Corporate Tax Law.

Example 16: Accrual basis vs realisation basis

Company A, a company incorporated and resident in the UAE, has a Permanent Establishment in a foreign country, Country X. In Year 1, the assets of the Permanent Establishment are revalued to fair market value in accordance with the applicable Accounting Standards, resulting in an unrealised gain. In Year 2, Company A sells the assets of the Permanent Establishment, thereby realising the gain.

In Year 1, the unrealised gain is taxed in Country X on an accrual basis and Company A pays tax on such income in Country X.

In the UAE, Company A has not elected for the Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption under Article 24 of the Corporate Tax Law. It has elected to take into account gains and losses on a realisation basis under Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. Hence, the unrealised gain is taxable in the UAE only in Year 2 when the gain is realised on sale of asset.

In Year 1, the unrealised gain is not part of the Taxable Income of Company A so credit for foreign tax paid in Country X cannot be claimed in Year 1. However, when the gain is taxable in the UAE in Year 2, a Foreign Tax Credit for the tax paid in Country X in Year 1 can be claimed.





83 Article 47(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.




Example 17: Variation on accrual basis vs realisation basis

Company A, a company incorporated and resident in the UAE, has a Permanent Establishment in a foreign country, Country X. In Year 1, the assets of the Permanent Establishment are revalued to fair market value in accordance with the applicable Accounting Standards, resulting in an unrealised gain. In Year 3, Company A sells the assets of the Permanent Establishment, thereby realising the gain. Company A does not have any other income in Year 3.

In Year 1, the profits of the Permanent Establishment, including the unrealised gain, are equivalent to AED 2 million. The profits are taxed in Country X on an accrual basis. Company A pays tax at the rate of 20% on its income in Country X as follows:

Item
Taxable Income (AED
equivalent)
Tax paid (AED equivalent)
Profits of Permanent Establishment
(other than unrealised gain)
1,500,000
300,000
Unrealised gain
500,000
100,000
Total
2,000,000
400,000

In the UAE, Company A only has income from a Foreign Permanent Establishment. Company A has not elected for the Foreign Permanent Establishment exemption under Article 24 of the Corporate Tax Law. It has elected to take into account gains and losses on a realisation basis under Article 20(3) of the Corporate Tax Law. Hence, the unrealised gain is taxable in the UAE only in Year 3 when the gain is realised on sale of asset.

In this case, Foreign Tax Credit will be available to Company A as follows: In Year 1:


* AED 300,000 (being the actual amount of foreign tax paid in the foreign jurisdiction less the tax on unrealised gain)
* AED 101,250 (being the amount of the Corporate Tax due on the foreign source income)]

Corporate Tax Payable
0
Unutilised Foreign Tax Credit: i.e. 300,000 - 101,250 (which
is forfeited)
198,750



Item
Amount (AED)
Taxable Income (realised gains)
500,000
Corporate Tax due on Taxable Income [(500,000-375,000)
*9%]
11,250
Less: Foreign Tax Credit for tax paid in Country X [lower of the following:
* AED 100,000 (foreign tax paid in Year 1 is considered in Year 1's Foreign Tax Credit calculation)
* AED 11,250 (being the amount of the Corporate Tax due on the foreign source income)]


(11,250)
Corporate Tax Payable
0





















in the UAE and follows the Accrual Basis of Accounting for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law.

On 1 June 2024 Company D declares a Dividend and at that time, Company C records a Dividend receivable of AED 50,000 in its Financial Statements. However, this Dividend is paid by Company D on 1 March 2025 and at the time when the payment is made, tax is withheld and paid to the tax authorities of Country D.

The ownership interest held by Company C in Company D does not qualify as a Participating Interest and hence, income received from Company D is not exempt under the Participation Exemption. Company C includes the foreign Dividend income in its Taxable Income for the Tax Period ending 31 December 2024.

For the purposes of a Foreign Tax Credit under the Corporate Tax Law, the withholding tax on the Dividend income will be considered to be "paid" in the Tax Period when the Dividend income is accrued in the Financial Statements and accordingly, included in the Taxable Income. It is not relevant that the Tax Period when the income is actually paid out and tax is remitted to the foreign tax authority is different. Accordingly, even though the withholding tax is actually levied and remitted to the tax authority of Country Z in the Gregorian calendar year 2025, Company C can claim a Foreign Tax Credit in respect of that withholding tax in the Tax Period ending 31 December 2024 when the Dividend income is included in Taxable Income.

Company C is required to maintain appropriate documentation in respect of the Foreign Tax Credit claimed. If the FTA conducts a tax audit of Company C for the Tax Period ending 31 December 2024, Company C should be able to provide proof of the withholding tax which has been paid to the tax authority of Country Z.




Company A, a company incorporated and resident in the UAE, issued a loan on 1 January 2025 to Company B, a company incorporated and managed in Country X and tax resident of Country X. Under the terms of the loan, Interest is payable at the end of each Gregorian calendar year in respect of that year. Thus, for the Gregorian calendar year 2025, the Company B will pay Interest on 31 December 2025.

Company A follows 1 April to 31 March as its Tax Period in the UAE and uses the Accrual Basis of Accounting. Accordingly, Interest income on the loan is first taxable in the Tax Period beginning 1 April 2024 and ending on 31 March 2025. Company A's Corporate Tax for that period is to be paid by 31 December 2025 under Article 48 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Country X follows a Gregorian calendar year for tax purposes. Under the tax laws of Country X, tax is to be withheld on Interest at the time of payment of Interest and upon deduction, the tax is to be immediately remitted to the foreign tax authority. Thus, when Company B pays Interest due for the Gregorian calendar year 2025 on 31 December 2025, it withholds taxes on such Interest payment and remits the same with tax authority of Country X on 31 December 2025.

For Company A, the foreign Interest accrued during the period 1 January 2025 to 31 March 2025 is one quarter (i.e. 3 out of 12 months) of the 2025 period and will be included in Company A's Taxable Income for the Tax Period 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025. However, this Interest will be paid by Company B only on 31 December 2025 and the withholding tax will be remitted only at the time of payment. Thus, while the Interest income will form part of Company A's Taxable Income for the Tax Period 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025, withholding tax on such income will be actually remitted to tax authority of Country X only in the next Tax Period.

However, for the purposes of a Foreign Tax Credit under Article 47 of the Corporate Tax Law, the foreign tax (i.e. withholding tax in Country X) will be considered to be "paid" when the Interest income is accrued in the Financial Statements of Company A and not when the income is actually paid out and withholding tax is remitted in Country X. Accordingly, Company A can claim a Foreign Tax Credit in respect of the proportionate withholding tax in the Tax Period ending 31 March 2025 when the Interest income is included in Taxable Income.

Company A is required to maintain appropriate documentation in respect of Foreign Tax Credit claimed. If the FTA conducts a tax audit of Company A for the Tax Period ending 31 March 2025, Company C should be able to provide proof of the withholding tax paid to the tax authority of Country Z.


8.5. Impact of Double Taxation Agreements

A Foreign Tax Credit under Article 47 of the Corporate Tax Law is allowed even if foreign tax is paid in a jurisdiction with which the UAE does not have a Double Taxation Agreement.

Sometimes a Double Taxation Agreement to which the UAE is a party may specify a method of providing relief from double taxation which is different to the Foreign Tax Credit rules set out in Article 47 of the Corporate Tax Law. Article 66 of the Corporate Tax Law provides that to the extent the terms of a Double Taxation Agreement are inconsistent with provisions of the Corporate Tax Law, the terms of the Double Taxation Agreement shall prevail.


Where a Double Taxation Agreement provides for the source country to tax the foreign source income at a specified rate, for instance to tax Dividends at the rate of 5%, the UAE Foreign Tax Credit would be limited to 5% (assuming that the foreign Dividend is not exempt under the Participation Exemption).

8.6. Documentation

A Taxable Person is required to maintain all necessary records for the purposes of claiming a Foreign Tax Credit.84 The records maintained by the Taxable Person should include all of the following details:
* the amount of foreign source income subject to tax in the foreign jurisdiction in the currency adopted in the foreign jurisdiction
* the exchange rate used to convert the foreign income to AED
* the financial year in which the foreign source income was derived
* the nature and amount of foreign tax levied on the foreign source income
* the date on which the foreign tax was paid


84 Article 47(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.


* whether the tax paid in the foreign jurisdiction represents an advance instalment of tax or withholding tax or final tax payment

The following documents are acceptable evidence of the payment of tax in a foreign jurisdiction:
* Official receipt issued by the relevant foreign tax authority evidencing payment of tax
* In case of withholding tax, a certificate of deduction of withholding tax issued by the relevant foreign tax authority
* A copy of a tax return filed in the foreign jurisdiction, accompanied by calculations of taxable income and corporate tax on such income when relevant
* A letter from the relevant foreign tax authority stating all taxes for that income year have been paid

If the above documents are not available in Arabic or English, a certified translation must be provided.


9. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
November 2023
* First version

	











Taxation of Natural Persons under the Corporate Tax Law
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGTNP1

November 2023


Contents
1. Glossary	3
2. Introduction	8
2.1. Overview	8
2.2. Purpose of this guide	8
2.3. Who should read this guide?	8
2.4. How to use this guide	8
2.5. Legislative references	9
2.6. Status of this guide	10
3. When does the Corporate Tax Law apply to natural persons?	11
3.1. Who is a natural person?	11
3.2. Corporate Tax Law and natural persons	11
3.3. Key considerations	11
3.4. Natural persons: resident and non-resident	12
3.5. What income is considered taxable for natural persons?	14
3.6. What is a Business and a Business Activity	16
3.7. Business or Business Activities that are subject to Corporate Tax	16
3.8. Exclusions from Corporate Tax	19
3.8.1. Wage	19
3.8.2. Personal Investment income	20
3.8.3. Real Estate Investment income	22
3.9. Natural persons deriving State Sourced Income	23
3.10. Computation of Turnover	24
3.11. Corporate Tax rate for natural persons	25
3.12. Interaction with Small Business Relief	26
4. Corporate Tax calculations for natural persons	28
4.1. Interest deduction	28
4.2. General deduction rules relating to Business expenditure	29
4.3. Non-deductible expenditure rules and natural persons	29
4.4. Related Parties for natural persons	30
4.4.1. Other natural persons	30
4.4.2. Juridical persons	31

4.4.3. Partners in the same Unincorporated Partnership	33
4.4.4. Trusts and foundations	33
4.5. Connected Persons	33
5. Interaction with other Business forms and entities	35
5.1. Juridical person	35
5.2. Sole proprietorship	35
5.3. Unincorporated Partnerships	35
5.4. Family Foundation	36
6. Corporate Tax compliance for natural persons	37
6.1. Tax Registration	37
6.2. Tax Deregistration	38
6.2.1. Cessation of Business or Business Activity	38
6.2.2. Death of the Taxable Person	39
6.3. Tax Period	39
6.4. Accounting Standards and Financial Statements	40
6.5. Tax Return	40
7. Annexures	41
7.1. Annexure 1: Commercial business	41
8. Updates and Amendments	44

1. Glossary

Accounting Income: The accounting net profit or loss for the relevant Tax Period as per the Financial Statements prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Accounting Standards: The accounting standards specified in Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.

Administrative Penalties: Amounts imposed and collected under the Corporate Tax Law or the Tax Procedures Law.

AED: The United Arab Emirates dirham.

Authority: Federal Tax Authority.

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Cash Basis of Accounting: An accounting method under which the Taxable Person recognises income and expenditure when cash payments are received and paid.

Connected Person: Any Person affiliated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 36(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Control: The direction and influence over one Person by another Person in accordance with the conditions of Article 35(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Corporate Tax: The tax imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses.

Corporate Tax Payable: Corporate Tax that has or will become due for payment to the FTA in respect of one or more Tax Periods.


Dividend: Any payments or distributions that are declared or paid on or in respect of shares or other rights participating in the profits of the issuer of such shares or rights which do not constitute a return on capital or a return on debt claims, whether such payments or distributions are in cash, securities, or other properties, and whether payable out of profits or retained earnings or from any account or legal reserve or from capital reserve or revenue. This will include any payment or benefit which in substance or effect constitutes a distribution of profits made in connection with the acquisition or redemption or cancellation of shares or termination of other ownership interests or rights or any transaction or arrangement with a Related Party or Connected Person which does not comply with Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Double Taxation Agreement: An international agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Exempt Income: Any income exempt from Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Family Foundation: Any foundation, trust or similar entity that meets the conditions of Article 17 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Financial Statements: A complete set of statements as specified under the Accounting Standards applied by the Taxable Person, which includes, but is not limited to, statement of income, statement of other comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement.

FTA: Federal Tax Authority, being the Authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule: The limitation provided under Article 30 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Government Entity: The federal government, local governments, ministries, government departments, government agencies, authorities and public institutions of the Federal Government or Local Governments.

IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.

IFRS for SMEs: International Financial Reporting Standard for small and medium- sized entities.


Interest: Any amount accrued or paid for the use of money or credit, including discounts, premiums and profit paid in respect of an Islamic financial instrument and other payments economically equivalent to Interest, and any other amounts incurred in connection with the raising of finance, excluding payments of the principal amount.

Legal Representative: The guardian or custodian of an incapacitated person or minor, or the bankruptcy trustee appointed by the court for a company that is in bankruptcy, or any other Person legally appointed to represent another Person.

Licence: A document issued by a Licensing Authority under which a Business or Business Activity is conducted in the UAE.

Licensing Authority: The competent authority concerned with licensing or authorising a Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Local Government: Any of the governments of the Member Emirates of the Federation.

Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Permanent Establishment: A place of Business or other form of presence in the UAE of a Non-Resident Person in accordance with Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Person: Any natural person or juridical person.

Personal Investment: Investment activity that a natural person conducts for their personal account that is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority in the UAE, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022 issuing the Commercial Transactions Law.

Preferred Shares: The category of capital stock or equity interest which gives its owner priority entitlement to profits and liquidation proceeds ahead of owners of Ordinary Shares.

Real Estate Investment: Any investment activity conducted by a natural person related to, directly or indirectly, the sale, leasing, sub-leasing, and renting of land or


real estate property in the UAE that is not conducted, or does not require to be conducted through a Licence from a Licensing Authority.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Revenue: The gross amount of income derived during a Tax Period.

Small Business Relief: A Corporate Tax relief that allows eligible Taxable Persons to be treated as having no Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period in accordance with Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law and Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.

State: United Arab Emirates.

State Sourced Income: Income accruing in, or derived from, the UAE as specified in Article 13 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Deregistration: A procedure under which a Person is deregistered for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Registration: A procedure under which a Person registers for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA.

Tax Registration Number: A unique number issued by the FTA to each Person who is registered for Corporate Tax purposes in the UAE.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE under the Corporate Tax Law.

Turnover: The gross amount of income derived during a Gregorian calendar year.


UAE: United Arab Emirates.

Unincorporated Partnership: A relationship established by contract between two Persons or more, such as a partnership or trust or any other similar association of Persons, in accordance with the applicable legislation of the UAE.

Wage: The wage that is given to the employee in consideration of their services under the employment contract, whether in cash or in kind, payable annually, monthly, weekly, daily, hourly, or by piece-meal, and includes all allowances, and bonuses in addition to any other benefits provided for, in the employment contract or in accordance with the applicable legislation in the UAE.

Withholding Tax: Corporate Tax to be withheld from State Sourced Income in accordance with Article 45 of the Corporate Tax Law.


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on the taxation of natural persons under the Corporate Tax Law. It provides readers with an overview of:

* When does the Corporate Tax Law apply to natural persons?
* Calculation of Corporate Tax for natural persons.
* Interactions with other Businesses.
* Corporate Tax compliance for natural persons.

2.3. Who should read this guide?

The guide should be read by any natural person, to help them understand how the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law apply to a natural person. It is intended to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic specific guides.

In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Corporate Tax Law apply to natural persons. The examples in the guide:


- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Corporate Tax Law that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Corporate Tax regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural persons.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:
* Federal Law No. 5 of 1985 on the Issuance of Civil Transactions Law, and its amendments is referred to as "Civil Transactions Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 19 of 2020 on Trust is referred to as "Trust Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as "Tax Procedures Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Federal Decree-Law No. 50 of 2022 issuing the Commercial Transactions Law is referred to as "Commercial Transactions Law";
* Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023 on Specifying the Categories of Businesses or Business Activities Conducted by a Resident or Non-Resident Natural Person that are Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023";
* Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023 on the Executive Regulation of Federal Decree- Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023";
* Cabinet Decision No. 85 of 2022 on Determination of Tax Residency is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 85 of 2022";
* Cabinet Decision No. 116 of 2022 on Determination of the Amount of Annual Income Subject to Corporate Tax is referred to as "Cabinet Decision No. 116 of 2022";
* Ministerial Decision No. 27 of 2023 on Implementation of Certain Provisions of Cabinet Decision No. 85 of 2022 on Determination of Tax Residency is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 27 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023 on Small Business Relief for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023 on the Determination of Categories of Taxable Persons Required to Prepare and Maintain Audited Financial Statements for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 82 of 2023";


* Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023 on the Accounting Standards and Methods for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023";
* Ministerial Decision No.134 of 2023 on the General Rules for Determining Taxable Income for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 134 of 2023"; and
* Federal Tax Authority Decision No. 6 of 2023 on Tax Deregistration Timeline for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "FTA Decision No. 6 of 2023".

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding statement, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the implications for a natural person of the Corporate Tax regime in the UAE. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each Person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

This document is subject to change without notice.


3. When does the Corporate Tax Law apply to natural persons?
3.1. Who is a natural person?

The term natural person takes its ordinary meaning, and refers to a living human person of any age, whether resident in the UAE or elsewhere. For minors or incapacitated individuals, the Corporate Tax obligations shall be fulfilled by their Legal Representative.1

3.2. Corporate Tax Law and natural persons

In order to level the playing field between incorporated businesses and unincorporated businesses conducted by individuals, the Corporate Tax Law applies to natural persons to the extent they are conducting a Business or Business Activity in the UAE, have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE, or derive State Sourced Income (i.e. income that is accrued in, or derived from, the UAE).

However, certain types of income are always exempt from Corporate Tax for natural persons. For a natural person, the Corporate Tax Law does not apply to their employment income, Personal Investment income, or Real Estate Investment income. These types of income are discussed in more detail below in the relevant sections.

Furthermore, international agreements, including Double Taxation Agreements, prevail where there is inconsistency between the provisions of the Corporate Tax Law and the agreement. 2 Therefore, the position under applicable Double Taxation Agreements between the UAE and other jurisdictions should be considered in determining the residence and extent of UAE Corporate Tax for a natural person.

3.3. Key considerations

The following considerations are key when determining whether a natural person will be subject to Corporate Tax:
1. A natural person who conducts a Business or Business Activity in the UAE is considered to be a Taxable Person, and a Resident Person as defined in the Corporate Tax Law.3




1 Article 7 of the Tax Procedures Law and Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023.
2 Article 66 of the Corporate Tax Law.
3 Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.


2. A natural person is subject to Corporate Tax on their Business or Business Activity only where the total Turnover derived from Business or Business Activities conducted in the UAE exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year.4
3. For a natural person, income from the following categories is not considered as arising from a Business or Business Activity, and is disregarded when determining Turnover and not subject to Corporate Tax, regardless of the amount:5
o Wage,
o Personal Investment income, and
o Real Estate Investment income.

Where the Turnover from Business or Business Activities conducted in the UAE exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year, the natural person (whether resident or non-resident) is required to comply with the obligations of the Corporate Tax Law, including registration for Corporate Tax purposes with the FTA, submitting Corporate Tax Returns and paying Corporate Tax (see Section 6).

3.4. Natural persons: resident and non-resident

For natural persons, physical residence in the UAE, whether by virtue of citizenship or a residency visa, is not the criterion that determines whether they are Resident Persons for Corporate Tax purposes, or whether their income is taxable. Instead, the approach is as follows:
1. When a natural person resides in the UAE and they conduct Business or Business Activities in the UAE, they are considered to be a Resident Person and, therefore, a Taxable Person for Corporate Tax purposes, subject to the key considerations covered above (in Section 3.3).
2. When a natural person resides outside the UAE - for instance, having their home in another country - they become a Resident Person for Corporate Tax purposes if they conduct Business or Business Activity in the UAE, subject to the key considerations covered above (in Section 3.3). Accordingly, under the UAE Corporate Tax Law, and if the natural person has not invoked the application of an applicable Double Taxation Agreement, any natural person conducting Business or Business Activity in the UAE will be a Resident Person for purposes of the Corporate Tax Law.

Note that, where a natural person resides in a country that has an applicable Double Taxation Agreement with the UAE, and as a result of the application of that Double Taxation Agreement the natural person is not resident in the UAE but has a Permanent Establishment in the UAE (and the Turnover attributable to the Permanent Establishment exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year), they would


4 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
5 Article 2(2) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.


be a Non-Resident Person and Taxable in the UAE as defined in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

This guide only addresses the tax implications for natural persons under the UAE Corporate Tax Law, i.e. without consideration of the potential implications of a Double Taxation Agreement.

A natural person residing outside the UAE may also become a Non-Resident Taxable Person if they derive State Sourced Income, which is income that accrues in, or is derived from, the UAE, but is not derived through a Business or Business Activity conducted by the natural person in the UAE (see Section 3.9).

Natural persons who are Non-Resident Persons should assess the potential implications of a Double Taxation Agreement, taking into account relevant facts and circumstances and read with Cabinet Decision No. 85 of 2022 and Ministerial Decision No. 27 of 2023, where relevant.






3.5. What income is considered taxable for natural persons?

Only income derived from a Business or Business Activity conducted in the UAE by a natural person is subject to Corporate Tax.

However, if a natural person's total Turnover from Business or Business Activities conducted in the UAE does not exceed AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year, they do not have to register for or pay Corporate Tax on their income from the Business or Business Activities. The Turnover may include "in-kind" payments which are valued at Market Value.

For Corporate Tax purposes, Wage (employment income), Personal Investment income, and Real Estate Investment income derived by a natural person are out of scope of Corporate Tax and not taken into account for the purpose of determining the AED 1 million threshold.

Example 3: A natural person providing consultancy services (self-employed)

A natural person, Mrs. A, based in the UAE, provides consultancy services to a third-party company based outside the UAE and gets paid AED 1,200,000 for these services within a Gregorian calendar year. After setting off their deductible costs, her net profit is AED 900,000.

Mrs. A works for herself, and is not employed by the foreign company, so the income derived is not in the nature of a Wage. The income also does not have the nature of Personal Investment income or Real Estate Investment income.

In this case, the income from the consultancy services is that of a Business or Business Activity. As the Turnover exceeds AED 1 million, Mrs. A's income from the consultancy services is subject to Corporate Tax.

Assuming that all costs are deductible for Corporate Tax purposes, Mrs. A's Taxable Income is AED 900,000. Note there is no exemption for the profit relating to the first AED 1 million of Turnover. However, the Mrs. A will be able to benefit from the 0% rate on the first AED 375,000 of Taxable Income.

In addition, as the Revenue (AED 1,200,000) of the Mrs. A does not exceed AED 3 million and assuming that the Revenue for previous Tax Periods also does not exceed AED 3 million, she can elect for Small Business Relief. This would mean she is treated as not having derived any Taxable Income for the relevant Tax Period









3.6. What is a Business and a Business Activity

The Corporate Tax Law provides the definitions of Business and Business Activity (see Glossary above) that fall under the scope of Corporate Tax in the UAE.6

Business Activity has a very comprehensive definition and includes any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or activities, conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business is defined as any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis. The definition provides the following examples for activities constituting a Business: "industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities". The definition also mentions that any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties constitutes a Business.

Nevertheless, "ongoing" should not be interpreted in such a way so as to exclude short-term activities. As such, short-term activities can be within the scope of Corporate Tax on the basis that they constitute a "transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities" as prescribed in the definition. The definition allows for a short-term commercial activity to be considered a Business for Corporate Tax purposes. This is why the Corporate Tax Law refers to the "conduct" of a Business rather than the "carrying on" of a Business.

Examples of activities conducted by a natural person that are not typically considered a Business or a Business Activity would include lottery winnings or game show prizes.

However, whether or not a Business is conducted on an ongoing basis will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

3.7. Business or Business Activities that are subject to Corporate Tax

Business or Business Activities conducted by a natural person in the UAE are subject to Corporate Tax if the total Turnover exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year.7 Turnover does not include gross income derived from the sources previously noted and further described in Section 3.8 below.


6 Article 1 of the Corporate Tax Law.
7 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.


The term Turnover is defined as the gross amount of income derived during a Gregorian calendar year.8 This means that the Turnover is the sum of all the income before any costs are deducted. 9

Where a natural person is considered a Resident Person and the total Turnover derived from Business or Business Activities conducted in the UAE exceeds AED 1 million, their Taxable Income will include income derived from the UAE and from outside the UAE but only insofar as it relates to the Business or Business Activities conducted by the natural person in the UAE.10

In other words, if a natural person conducts a Business or Business Activity while being present in the UAE, their Taxable Income (if any) will include income derived from sources (for example, clients) located in the UAE and outside of the UAE, as long as the income relates to the Business or Business Activities they are conducting in the UAE.

For the purpose of determining whether the income is related to the Business or Business Activity conducted in the UAE, it would be relevant to consider (among others), the following elements:
- whether persons who contributed to producing or selling the goods or services are managed, working from or residents of the UAE,
- whether contracting or Business development related to selling the goods or providing the services was conducted from the UAE, or
- whether the assets that contributed to the production of the goods or rendering of the services are located in the UAE.

On the other hand, in general terms, where a natural person is considered a Non- Resident Person and the total Turnover derived from Business or Business Activities conducted in the UAE exceeds AED 1 million, such natural person's Taxable Income would be limited to income derived from the UAE.


8 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
9 Further guidance on Turnover is provided later in this Section.
10 Article 12(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.



Mr. E is considered to be a Resident Person in the UAE, as he is conducting a Business or Business Activity in the UAE. His worldwide Turnover for the year is in excess of AED 1 million, however, he is not subject to Corporate Tax as the Turnover derived from Business or Business Activity in the UAE does not exceed AED 1 million. The income derived from activities conducted in Country A does not result from the use of assets or other resources located in the UAE. Accordingly, that income is not related to the Business or Business Activity conducted in the UAE.

When calculating the Turnover, Mr. E should only include income derived from the UAE or related to the Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Accordingly, wholly separate Business and Business Activity which are not related or connected to the Business conducted in the UAE will not be taxable in the UAE and, therefore, will not be considered for the AED 1 million threshold. Thus, Mr. E will not have to register for Corporate Tax purposes.

If the income of AED 950,000 was related to the Business or Business Activity conducted in the UAE, then Mr. E would be required to register for Corporate Tax purposes as the AED 1 million threshold would be exceeded.





necessary Licence from the relevant UAE Licensing Authority. Mr. G also continues to provide therapy sessions to his regular patients in his clinic in Country A while he is back home.

Mr. G is considered to be a Resident Person in the UAE, as he is conducting Business or Business Activity in the UAE.

Due to his work in the UAE and reputation for providing high-quality services, Mr. G receives requests to provide treatment sessions from therapy centres in various Gulf countries.

In this scenario, when calculating the Mr. G's Turnover, both the income derived from the UAE and from other Gulf countries (not being considered as Wage) should be included as they relate to Business or Business Activities conducted in the UAE.

The income derived from the Gulf countries relates to the Business or Business Activity in the UAE because those services are attributable to the UAE practice.

As for the income derived in Country A, it is not related to Mr. G's Business in the UAE since it was solely earned from regular patients of the separate Business in that Country.

3.8. Exclusions from Corporate Tax

For a natural person, the income from specific activities (Wage, Personal Investment income and Real Estate Investment income) is not subject to Corporate Tax as these sources are not considered as Business or Business Activities under the Corporate Tax Law. This income is also not taken into account in determining if a natural person has derived Turnover in excess of AED 1 million in a Gregorian calendar year from Business or Business Activities conducted in the UAE.

3.8.1. Wage

Wage, including any compensation or benefit received, whether in cash or in-kind, by any employee from their employer is not subject to Corporate Tax. Thus, a salary or other form of remuneration received by a natural person as an employee from their employer would not fall within the scope of Corporate Tax. The question of whether a natural person is an employee and earns a salary or other form of remuneration as such, is a question of fact to be determined on a case-by-case basis.

A natural person appointed as a director, for example as a member of the board of directors of a Public Joint Stock Company, may receive fees and other similar payments for carrying out this role, either in the course of their employment or as an


independent party appointed to a board of directors. Generally, director fees will not be considered as a Business or Business Activity, and therefore would not be subject to Corporate Tax.

Example 10: A natural person who is an employee and member of a board of directors

A natural person, Mr. H, works for a company based in the UAE.

Mr. H holds a senior management position in the company and plays a crucial role in its day-to-day operations. In addition to his employment responsibilities, he is a member of the board of directors.

As an employee, Mr. H receives a market rate salary for his executive role, which is determined by his employment contract and is subject to applicable employment laws.

As a board member of the company, Mr. H also receives fees from the company for attending board meetings.

The salary received by Mr. H is in the nature of a Wage and accordingly is not subject to Corporate Tax.

In addition, the remuneration received by Mr. H in their capacity as a member of the board of directors in the circumstances as set out above, would typically be considered a Wage in the same way as an employee's salary and accordingly is not subject to Corporate Tax.

3.8.2. Personal Investment income

Personal Investment income is not subject to Corporate Tax when derived by natural persons from investment activity conducted in their personal capacity that is neither conducted through a Licence or requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority, nor considered as a commercial business in accordance with the Commercial Transactions Law.

To conduct Business in the UAE, a Licence may be required. The nature of the economic activity defines the type of Licence required. In general, there are different types of Licences, including industrial, commercial, crafts, tourism, agricultural, and professional. However, in addition to these Licences, other types of Licences may be issued by Local Governments, for example, a freelance Licence.


As mentioned above, Personal Investment is an investment activity that a natural person conducts for their personal account and should not be an activity that is "considered as a commercial business" in accordance with the Commercial Transactions Law. 11 This law establishes various criteria for identifying a commercial business.12 Broadly, a commercial business is defined as work practiced by a trader in relation to their trade, or speculation works practiced by a person, whether or not a trader, for the purpose of realising a profit, work considered by the Commercial Transactions Law as commercial business (by virtue of its nature, if carried out as an occupation, or equivalent), or work associated with or facilitating a commercial business.13

However, where an activity is not considered a commercial business as per the Commercial Transactions Law, it will not automatically be considered a Personal Investment activity, unless it is conducted on the person's personal account and is neither conducted through a Licence or required to be conducted through a Licence.

For details of the list of the categories mentioned above, please refer to Annexure 1 and to the Commercial Transactions Law.






11 Article 1 of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
12 Article 4 of the Commercial Transactions Law.
13 Articles 5, 6 and 7 of the Commercial Transactions Law.




3.8.3. Real Estate Investment income

Real Estate Investment income is not subject to Corporate Tax when derived by natural persons if it is related, directly or indirectly, to the selling, leasing, sub-leasing, and renting of land or real estate property in the UAE that is not through a Licence nor requiring a Licence from a Licensing Authority.







3.9. Natural persons deriving State Sourced Income

State Sourced Income is defined as income which is:14
* derived from a UAE Resident Person,
* derived from a UAE Permanent Establishment of a Non-Resident Person, or
* accrued in or derived from activities performed, assets located, capital invested, rights used, or services performed or benefitted from in the UAE.

State Sourced Income includes, but is not limited to, Dividends from UAE companies, payments from UAE Businesses, royalties paid from the UAE and Interest from a UAE bank account. The following are all examples of State Sourced Income:15
- Income from the sale of goods in the UAE,
- Income from the provision of services that are rendered or utilised or benefitted from in the UAE,
- Income from a contract insofar as it has been wholly or partly performed or benefitted from in the UAE,
- Income from movable or immovable property in the UAE,
- Income from the disposal of shares or capital of a Resident Person,
- Income from the use or right to use in the UAE, or the grant of permission to use in the UAE, any intellectual or intangible property,
- Interest that meets any of the following conditions:
o The loan is secured by movable or immovable property located in the UAE,
o The borrower is a Resident Person, or
o The borrower is a Government Entity.
- Insurance or reinsurance premiums in any of the following instances:
o The insured asset is located in the UAE,
o The insured Person is a Resident Person, or
o The insured activity is conducted in the UAE.

Certain State Sourced Income, derived by a Non-Resident Person including a natural person, that is not attributable to a Permanent Establishment, may be subject to Withholding Tax. The current Withholding Tax rate is 0%.16

The Withholding Tax rate on State Source Income is currently 0%.





14 Article 13(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 15 Article 13(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 16 Article 45 of the Corporate Tax Law.


However, if the natural person is a Resident Person (or is a Non-Resident Person having a Permanent Establishment in the UAE), their related income would be subject to Corporate Tax at the applicable rate (rather than Withholding Tax). This would require them to register with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes, subject to the key considerations covered in Section 3.3.

3.10. Computation of Turnover

For the purposes of calculating the Turnover of natural persons, gross income derived during a Gregorian calendar year from all the categories of Businesses or Business Activities that they conduct should be taken into consideration. For example, income derived from a sole proprietorship or their share of income from a fiscally transparent Unincorporated Partnership would need to be combined.

Income derived from Wage, Personal Investments, or Real Estate Investments is excluded when determining the Turnover.

For the purpose of determining whether the natural person's Turnover exceeds the threshold of AED 1 million, the Turnover is that of the Gregorian calendar year in question.17 Turnover should be measured on an accrual basis of accounting except where the natural person applies the Cash Basis of Accounting.18






17 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Decision No. 49 of 2023.
18 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.


3.11. Corporate Tax rate for natural persons

The below rates apply to the total Taxable Income of a natural person, i.e. the Taxable Income derived from all Businesses or Business Activities conducted in the UAE by such natural person and not the Taxable Income of each Business or Business Activity separately.

When the Turnover derived by the natural person in a Gregorian calendar year exceeds the AED 1 million, the Taxable Income of a natural person will be subject to Corporate Tax at the following rates:19
* 0% on the portion of the Taxable Income not exceeding AED 375,000.
* 9% on the portion of the Taxable Income that exceeds AED 375,000.


Example 17: Natural person receives a Wage and conducts Business in the UAE

A natural person, Miss P, based in the UAE, conducted the following activities during a Gregorian calendar year:
* Worked for 3 months under an employment contract and earned AED 200,000.
* Worked as a freelance graphic designer in the UAE generating AED 1,600,000 Turnover (assume AED 400,000 of deductible expenses).
* Ran a sole proprietorship that sold mobile phones and accessories in the UAE and overseas. The gross income from domestic sales amounted to AED 1,200,000, and AED 800,000 from overseas sales (assuming AED 1,400,000 of deductible expenses).

Step 1 - Calculation of the Turnover

The income derived from freelance activity, and from the sole proprietorship (both domestic and overseas sales, as the latter is related to the activity conducted in the UAE) are taken into consideration in computing the Turnover. Wage income is not considered. Therefore:

Turnover = 1,600,000 + 1,200,000 + 800,000 = AED 3,600,000. As such, the
natural person is considered to conduct Business or Business Activities that are subject to Corporate Tax, and the Corporate Tax is computed on the Taxable Income, which is the Accounting Income after the relevant required adjustments as per the Corporate Tax Law.





19 Article 3 of the Corporate Tax Law and Articles 2(1) and 3 of Cabinet Decision No. 116 of 2022.




3.12. Interaction with Small Business Relief

It is possible for a natural person to elect for Small Business Relief under Article 21 of the Corporate Tax Law. The relevant conditions need to be satisfied, including the fact that the Revenue from the taxable Business or Business Activity of the natural person in the relevant Tax Period and previous Tax Periods does not exceed AED 3 million for each Tax Period.20

Note that the Small Business Relief is based on Revenue, where Revenue is defined as the gross amount of income derived during a Tax period. A natural person's Tax Period is the Gregorian calendar year (see Section 6.3). Thus, a natural person's Revenue will be the same as Turnover, being the gross amount of income derived during a Gregorian calendar year.


20 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 73 of 2023.





4. Corporate Tax calculations for natural persons

4.1. Interest deduction

Where a natural person is subject to Corporate Tax, the General Interest Deduction Limitation Rule does not apply.21 This rule would otherwise cap Interest deductions at the higher of AED 12,000,000 or 30% of their taxable earnings before the deduction of Interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA).22

Instead, for a natural person, provided that the Interest expenditure is incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the natural person's Business, and meets the arm's length principle, the Interest expenditure will be fully deductible.23



21 Article 30(6)(c) of the Corporate Tax Law.
22 Article 30(1) and 30(3) of the Corporate Tax Law and Article 8 of Ministerial Decision no. 126 of 2023.
23 Article 28(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.




4.2. General deduction rules relating to Business expenditure

Expenditure incurred by a natural person wholly and exclusively for the purposes of his or her Business that is not capital in nature shall be deductible in the Tax Period in which it is incurred. This general rule is subject to certain limitations. Accordingly, no deduction is allowed in relation to the following:24
a. Expenditure not incurred for the purposes of the natural person's Business.
b. Expenditure incurred in deriving Exempt Income (other than Interest expenditure).
c. Losses not connected with or arising out of the natural person's Business.

If expenditure is incurred for more than one purpose, a deduction would be allowed for any identifiable part or proportion of the expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of deriving Taxable Income, or if not incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of Business, an appropriate proportion of any unidentifiable part or proportion of the expenditure incurred for the purposes of deriving Taxable Income that has been determined on a fair and reasonable basis, having regard to the relevant facts and circumstances of the natural person's Business.

4.3. Non-deductible expenditure rules and natural persons

Article 33 of the Corporate Tax Law disallows deductions for certain types of expenditure. This includes a specific disallowance for amounts withdrawn from a Business by a natural person.25 For example, amounts withdrawn by a natural person from their sole proprietorship Business - even if described as Wage or salary - cannot be deducted in calculating the Taxable Income arising from that Business.








24 Article 28 of the Corporate Tax Law.
25 Article 33(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.




4.4. Related Parties for natural persons

The transactions of a natural person with Related Parties are required to follow the arm's length principle for the purposes of Corporate Tax.26 The arm's length principle requires the results of transactions or arrangements between Related Parties to be consistent with the results that would have been realised if Persons who were not Related Parties had engaged in a similar transaction or arrangement under similar circumstances.

A natural person can be a Related Party of one or more natural or juridical persons. This is discussed below.

4.4.1. Other natural persons

Two or more natural persons are considered to be Related Parties if their relationship is within the fourth degree of kinship or affiliation, including by way of adoption or guardianship.27

In calculating the degree of kinship:
a. A relative of one of the spouses is considered of the same degree of kinship in relation to the other spouse.28





26 Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law.
27 Article 35(1)(a) of the Corporate Tax Law.
28 Article 79 of the Civil Transactions Law.


b. In the case of direct kinship, the degree is calculated by considering each descendant (a son or daughter) a degree upward to the ascendant (the father or mother).29
c. In the case of indirect kinship, degrees are counted upwards from the descendant to the common ancestor and then downwards from the latter to the other descendant. Each descendant, excluding the common ancestor, is counted as a degree.30

A husband and wife are considered to be in a relationship of the first degree of affiliation.


4.4.2. Juridical persons

A natural person's Related Party relationships with juridical persons are identified based on ownership and Control.31

4.4.2.1. Relationship based on ownership

A juridical person is considered to be a Related Party of a natural person if the natural person or one or more Related Parties of the natural person are shareholders in the


29 Article 78 of the Civil Transactions Law. 30 Article 78 of the Civil Transactions Law. 31 Article 35(1)(b) of the Corporate Tax Law.


juridical person, and the natural person, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly owns a 50% or more interest in the juridical person.32


4.4.2.2. Relationship based on Control

A juridical person is considered to be a Related Party for a natural person if the natural person, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly Controls the juridical person.33

For a natural person, Control means the ability of the natural person to influence another Person. Control may be exerted in different ways:34
* the ability to exercise 50% or more of the voting rights; or
* the ability to determine the composition of 50% or more of the board of directors; or
* the ability to receive 50% or more of the profits; or
* the ability to determine, or exercise significant influence over, the conduct of the Business and affairs.





32 Article 35(1)(b)(1) of the Corporate Tax Law. 33 Article 35(1)(b)(2) of the Corporate Tax Law. 34 Article 35(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.



4.4.3. Partners in the same Unincorporated Partnership

Partners in an Unincorporated Partnership, whether the Unincorporated Partnership has applied to be treated as a Taxable Person or not, are Related Parties.35 This is because of the partners' shared Control over the Business of the partnership.

4.4.4. Trusts and foundations

A Person who is the trustee, founder, settlor or beneficiary of a trust or foundation will be considered Related Parties of the trust or foundation and its Related Parties.36

4.5. Connected Persons

Similar to the requirement that transactions conducted between Related Parties should meet the arm's length principle for Corporate Tax purposes, a payment or benefit provided by a Taxable Person to its Connected Person in exchange for services (or whatever is otherwise provided), is deductible for Corporate Tax purposes only to the extent that it follows the arm's length principle.

A payment or benefit made by a Taxable Person to a Connected Person in excess of the Market Value in relation to such transactions is not deductible for such Taxable Person. This is also subject to the expenditure meeting the general requirements to be deductible under Article 28 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Unlike the Related Party rules, the Connected Persons provisions only apply to the Taxable Person making the payment, not the recipient. Article 36 defines a Connected Person as an owner, director or officer of the Taxable Person, or a Related Party of any owner, director or officer.

A Taxable Person that is a natural person will not have an owner, director or officer, as these concepts relate to juridical persons. The only aspect of the definition of Connected Person which may apply to a natural person is that partners in an Unincorporated Partnership are Connected Persons with each other (and also the other partners' Related Parties, such as relevant family members).


35 Article 35(1)(e) of the Corporate Tax Law.
36 Article 35(1)(f) of the Corporate Tax Law.


which entitle her to 60% of the voting rights in Company Y. She is also a partner in a UAE Unincorporated Partnership, P Partners. The other partner in the partnership is a UAE company, Company Z.














* Mr. B and Ms. C are Related Parties as they are first cousins, and related to the fourth degree of kinship.
* Mr. B and Company X are Related Parties - Mr B is a natural person who directly owns more than 50% of the juridical person Company X. Mr. B is a Connected Person of Company X because he is an owner of Company X.
* Mr B and Company Y are Related Parties - Mr B is an individual who, together with his Related Party, Ms C, Controls Company Y. Both Mr B and Ms C are Connected Persons of Company Y because Ms. C is an owner of Company Y and Mr. B is a Related Party of Ms C.
* Mr. B is a Connected Person of Company Z - Mr. B is a Related Party of Ms C, who is a partner in the same Unincorporated Partnership as Company Z.
* Ms. C and Company X are Related Parties - Ms C is an individual who, together with her Related Party, Mr. B, Controls Company X. Ms. C is a Connected Person of Company X because she is a Related Party of Mr. B who owns Company X.
* Ms. C and Company Y are Related Parties - Ms. C is an individual who directly Controls a juridical person, Company Y, as, albeit she owns 20% of Company Y, she holds more than 50% of the voting rights. Ms. C is a Connected Person of Company Y.
* Ms. C and Company Z are Related Parties - they are partners in the same Unincorporated Partnership P. Ms. C is a Connected Person of Company Z. because she is a partner with Company Z in the same Unincorporated Partnership P.


5. Interaction with other Business forms and entities

5.1. Juridical person

A juridical person is a legal entity with a separate personality. Ownership of a juridical person by a natural person does not in itself make the natural person a Taxable Person.

Subject to the conditions explained above, natural persons and juridical persons can be considered Related Parties or Connected Persons. If a natural person conducts Businesses or Business Activities in their own right, any transaction or arrangement they conduct with a juridical person that is a Related Party should meet the arm's length principle for the purposes of Corporate Tax.

5.2. Sole proprietorship

A sole proprietorship is a type of Businesses owned and conducted by a natural person on his/her own account and in their own name, as the case may be.

For Corporate Tax purposes, the sole proprietorship and the natural person are one and the same because of their direct relationship and Control over the Business and their unlimited liability for the debts and other obligations of the Business. The natural person conducting the Business will be the Taxable Person, not the sole proprietorship itself.

5.3. Unincorporated Partnerships

An Unincorporated Partnership is a relationship established by contract between two Persons or more. Generally, each partner in an Unincorporated Partnership is treated as an individual Taxable Person for the purposes of the Corporate Tax Law.37 Subject to the Turnover threshold conditions (see Section 3.7), a natural person partner is subject to Corporate Tax directly on their distributive share and their Taxable Income is determined according to the standard rules.

The partners in the Unincorporated Partnership may apply to the FTA for the Unincorporated Partnership to be treated as a Taxable Person.38 Where such an application is approved, the income of the Unincorporated Partnership is taxed at the level of the Unincorporated Partnership instead of at the level of the partners.




37 Article 16(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.
38 Article 16(8) of the Corporate Tax Law.


In this situation, the partner would need to assess if they had any other Business (other than the partnership) which may be subject to Corporate Tax based on the principles explained in the previous sections. If not, such partner would not be subject to Corporate Tax (other than through the partnership).

5.4. Family Foundation

Natural persons can set up a Family Foundation using different structures such as a contractual trust, a private trust company, a foundation or any other similar entity to hold and manage personal assets and investments for asset protection, succession, etc.

Some of these structures (such as a trust or foundation) may be considered to have a separate legal personality i.e. a juridical person as per the applicable legislation in the UAE, for example the Federal Trust Law.39 A juridical person is treated as a Taxable Person and not a fiscally transparent entity for Corporate Tax purposes.

Where a Family Foundation is a juridical person, it would be subject to Corporate Tax. In particular, any investment income of its founder, settlor or any of its beneficiaries would be subject to Corporate Tax at the Family Foundation level. Any income received by natural persons, as beneficiaries, from a Family Foundation that is a Taxable Person would not be Taxable Income in the hands of the beneficiary as it would be investment income already subject to Corporate Tax at the Family Foundation level.

However, a Family Foundation can make an application to the FTA to be treated as an Unincorporated Partnership (and, therefore, transparent from a Corporate Tax perspective) where certain conditions are met.40 One of these conditions is that the Family Foundation does not conduct any activity that would have constituted a Business or Business Activity as per Article 11(6) of the Corporate Tax Law had the activity been undertaken, or its assets been held, directly by its founder, settlor, or any of its beneficiaries. Therefore, if the Family Foundation is eligible to be treated as an Unincorporated Partnership and is treated as such where an application is submitted and approved by the FTA, the share of income of the natural persons as beneficiaries would not constitute Taxable Income for the natural persons. This reflects the requirement that the Family Foundation does not conduct any activity that would have constituted a Business or Business Activity had the activity been undertaken, or its assets been held, directly by the natural persons.


6. Corporate Tax compliance for natural persons

6.1. Tax Registration

Natural persons conducting Businesses or Business Activities in the UAE that are subject to Corporate Tax are only required to register for Corporate Tax purposes once the total Turnover derived from such Businesses or Business Activities exceeds AED 1 million within a Gregorian calendar year.41

In case a natural person is a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership that is not treated as a Taxable Person in its own right, they are treated as conducting the Business of the Unincorporated Partnership. Therefore, they would need to assess whether they are Taxable Persons in their individual capacity and whether they need to register for Corporate Tax purposes by allocating the income of the partnership based on their distributive share in the partnership during the Gregorian calendar year and adding this to their Turnover from any other Business which they carry on (if any).

If following their initial Tax Registration, a natural person conducts new Business or Business Activities, the same Tax Registration Number will be utilised for such Business or Business Activities, and the natural person is not required to register again with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes. In this case, the natural person is required to include the Taxable Income and the relevant information of the new Business or Business Activities in their Tax Return under the same Tax Registration Number (see Section 6.5 below).

When a natural person who has registered for Corporate Tax with the FTA finds their Turnover not exceeding the AED 1 million threshold during any subsequent Gregorian calendar year, they will retain their Tax Registration status. They are not permitted to deregister for Corporate Tax unless they have ceased conducting Business or Business Activities as explained in Section 6.2 below.






6.2. Tax Deregistration

6.2.1. Cessation of Business or Business Activity

A natural person registered for Corporate Tax purposes, or in certain cases, their Legal Representative, shall file a Tax Deregistration application with the FTA in case of cessation of Business or Business Activity whether by dissolution, liquidation, or otherwise.42 The application shall be filed within 3 months of the date of cessation of the Business or Business Activity.43

The application shall not be filed if any of the natural person's Businesses or Business Activities are still active or being conducted, even if the natural person's Turnover falls under the AED 1 million threshold within a Gregorian calendar year.

Since the Tax Period of a natural person is the Gregorian calendar year (see Section 6.3) and their Taxable Income includes all Businesses or Business Activities conducted during that year (see Section 3.10), a natural person has only one Tax Registration Number for all their Businesses or Business Activities (see Section 6.1). If the natural person has more than one Business or Business Activity, then the natural person should deregister only when all Business or Business Activity has ceased.

Where a natural person has ceased Business or Business Activities part-way through a Tax Period, the Tax Period will come to an end (see Section 6.3). The Tax Deregistration application must be submitted within 3 months of the cessation and the


Tax Return will be due in line with ordinary time limits (9 months from the end of the Tax Period) (see Section 6.5). The Tax Deregistration will not be approved where the natural person has not filed all the required Tax Returns, including the Tax Return for the Tax Period up to and including the date of cessation, and paid all due Corporate Tax and Administrative Penalties.44

In the event that a natural person submits an application for deregistration and then in the same year commenced a new Business or Business Activity following deregistration, the suspended Tax Registration Number is reactivated.45

6.2.2. Death of the Taxable Person

In instances where a natural person conducting Business or Business Activities dies, the natural person ceases to be a Taxable Person. The settlement of any outstanding Corporate Tax liabilities due from the natural person prior to the date of death, shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Article 42(1) of the Tax Procedures Law. These apply as follows:

* For Corporate Tax Payable due prior to the date of death, settlement shall be made from the value of the elements of the estate or income arising thereof prior to distribution among the heirs or legatees.
* If it transpires after the distribution of the estate that there is Corporate Tax Payable still outstanding, recourse shall be had against the heirs and legatees for settlement of such outstanding tax each to the extent of their share in the estate, unless a clearance certificate has been obtained from the FTA for the estate representative or any of the heirs.

6.3. Tax Period

The Tax Period for a natural person who conducts Business or Business Activity that is subject to Corporate Tax, shall be the Gregorian calendar year. The Gregorian calendar year runs from 1 January until 31 December. The first potential Tax Period for a natural person is the 2024 Gregorian calendar year. A natural person starting their Business or Business Activity on 1 October 2024 would need to assess whether they exceed the AED 1 million threshold on 31 December 2024. If this is the case, they would need to register for Corporate Tax purposes and their first Tax Period would be the Gregorian calendar year commencing on 1 January 2024 and ending on 31 December 2024. They would need to file their Corporate Tax return before the end of September 2025.


6.4. Accounting Standards and Financial Statements

A natural person that is a Taxable Person shall prepare standalone Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"). However, where their Turnover does not exceed AED 50 million, they may apply the International Financial Reporting Standard for small and medium-sized entities ("IFRS for SMEs").46

When it comes to the method of accounting, they may prepare Financial Statements using the Cash Basis of Accounting if their Turnover does not exceed AED 3 million, or in exceptional circumstances pursuant to an application submitted to and approved by the FTA.47

The Financial Statements should be prepared based on the aggregation of all the Business and Business Activities subject to Corporate Tax that are conducted by the natural person.

Where natural persons derive Turnover exceeding AED 50 million, they must prepare and maintain audited Financial Statements for the relevant Tax Period.48

6.5. Tax Return

A natural person that is a Taxable Person must file a Corporate Tax Return to the FTA no later than 9 months from the end of the relevant Tax Period.49

Natural persons should submit a single Tax Return for all their Businesses and Business Activities subject to Corporate Tax.

Natural persons who have registered with the FTA for Corporate Tax after meeting the relevant conditions, will be required to file a 'nil' Tax Return within 9 months following the end of subsequent Tax Period in which their total Turnover derived from the Business or Business Activities conducted in the UAE does not exceed AED 1 million. As for the Tax Periods where their Turnover exceeds AED 1 million, they should file the Tax Return as indicated above.








46 Article 4 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.
47 Article 2 of Ministerial Decision No. 114 of 2023.


7. Annexures

7.1. Annexure 1: Commercial business

A commercial business, as per the Commercial Transaction Law, includes:50
1. the work practiced by the trader in relation to his trade, and each work practiced by the trader considered related to his trade, unless otherwise is evident;
2. speculation works practiced by a person, whether or not a trader, for purpose of realising profit;
3. the works considered by the Law as commercial business; and
4. the works associated with or facilitating a commercial business.

The following works shall be considered commercial business, by virtue of their nature:51
1. Purchase of tangible and intangible chattel for purpose of sale with profit whether sold as is, or after transformation or manufacture.
2. Purchase or hire of tangible and intangible chattel for purpose of lease.
3. Sale or hire of purchased or hired chattel as aforementioned.
4. Operations of banks, exchanges, stock market, operations of mutual funds, trust funds and financial institutions and all other operations of financial brokerage.
5. All commercial papers' operations, whatever the capacity of the interested parties therein, and whatever the nature of the operations for which the same is created.
6. All works of marine and air navigation, including:
a. Building, selling, purchasing, leasing, chartering, repairing or maintaining ships and aircrafts, and marine and air consignments, including the marine and air transport.
b. Selling or purchasing equipment, tools or materials of ships or aircrafts or their catering.
c. Loading and discharge works.
d. Marine and aircraft loans.
7. Works of incorporation of commercial companies.
8. Current account.
9. Different kinds of insurance.
10. Sale at public auction except those conducted by the judiciary.
11. Works of hotels, restaurants, cinemas, theatres, playgrounds and theme parks.
12. Works of production, sale, transport and distribution of water, electricity and gas.
13. Issue of newspapers and magazines, if the purpose of the issue is realizing profit through publication of advertisements, news and articles.
14. Post and communications' works.
15. Works of radio and TV broadcast and studios of recording and photography.

50 Article 4 of the Commercial Transactions Law.
51 Article 5 of the Commercial Transactions Law.


16. Works of public warehouses and mortgages created on the properties lodged therein.
17. Virtual asset works.

The following works shall be considered commercial business, if carried out as occupation:52
1. Brokerage.
2. Commercial agency.
3. Commission agency.
4. Commercial representation.
5. Supply contracts.
6. Purchase and sale of plots or real estates for purpose of realizing profit from their sale, in their original condition, or after transformation or division.
7. Land transport.
8. Real estate works, whenever the contractor undertakes to provide materials or workers.
9. Extractive industries of natural resources.
10. Works of tourism, travel, export, import, customs clearance, and service and recruitment bureaus.
11. Works of printing, publication, photography, recording and advertisement.
12. Industry.
13. Works of animal and fishery resources.
14. Hire and lease of others' labour for purpose of hire.
15. Lease or hire of homes or flats and rooms, whether or not furnished, for purpose of re-lease.
16. Creation, sale, lease and management of electronic platforms, websites, smart applications, data, artificial intelligence and other digital transformation works.

The works that can be considered equivalent to the considered commercial business described above for the similarity of their characters and purposes shall be considered commercial business.53

The Commercial Transaction Law indicates the following to not be considered commercial business:54
1. Sale of farms and produce cultivated in the owned or cultivated land, even after the transformation by the means normally used, unless this is practiced as an occupation. If the farmer permanently establishes a store or a factory to sell the produce as is, or after processing, the sale in such case shall be deemed commercial business.


52 Article 6 of the Commercial Transactions Law. 53 Article 7 of the Commercial Transactions Law. 54 Article 8 of the Commercial Transactions Law.


2. Practice of any agritourism activity, with or without consideration, including allowing third party's access to the farm, purchase and hire from the farm, or visit or stay for a short period for purpose of access or enjoyment of farming activities, watching or buying animals or their products, learning, training or other activities practiced in the farm.
3. The work in which the individuals rely on their physical or mental effort to realize profit or a sum of money rather than relying on monetary capital.
4. Making and selling a work of art made by the artist himself or by using workers, and printing and selling by the author of his work.


8. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
November 2023
* First version



Tax Procedures Public Clarification

TAXP006


????? ??? ???? ????????? ????????

Issuance of a New Tax Procedures Executive Regulation

????? ????? ??????? ????? ????????? ????????



Issue
The tax procedures in the UAE are regulated by


???????

???????
????  ?????????  ????????  ??  ????  ????????

Federal Decree-Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures ("Decree-Law") and its Executive

??????  ???????  ??????  ??????  ???  )28(  ????
????  ?????????  ????????  "(???????  ??????)"

??????? 2022

Regulation. Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023 ("New

??????? ?????????. ??? ???? ???? ???? ??????? ??? )74(

Executive Regulation") repealed Cabinet Decision

???????)"  ????  ????

"(???????  ?????????

2023

????

No. 36 of 2017 on the Executive Regulation of Federal Law No. 7 of 2017 on Tax Procedures, and its amendments ("Previous Executive Regulation"), with effect from 1 August 2023.

??????? ??? )36( ???? 2017 ?? ??? ??????? ????????? ??????? ???????? ??? )7( ???? 2017 ???? ????????? ???????? ????????? "(??????? ????????? ???????)"? ????? ????
????? ?? ????? ??? ?? 1 ????? .2023

Many of the provisions of the Previous Executive

????? ??????? ????????? ?? ???????

?????? ??

??  ?????

Regulation	were	incorporated	in	the	New Executive Regulation.

????????? ???????.

This Public Clarification is intended to inform

???

???????

???  ?????

???????  ?????

???

????

persons of the changes made in the New Executive Regulation where these differ from the provisions of the Previous Executive Regulation.
Articles that remained materially the same (except for renumbering) are not covered by this Public Clarification.

????????? ???? ?? ??????? ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ???
???? ????? ?? ????? ?? ??????? ????????? ???????.


?? ???? ??? ??????? ????? ?????? ???? ?? ????? ??????? ????
??? ????? ???????.



Summary
The main changes in the New Executive Regulation are in relation to the following topics:

????
????????? ???????? ???? ???? ?? ??????? ????????? ???????
????? ??? ????:

* Definitions (Article 1)1
* Recordkeeping (Articles 2 and 3)2,3,4,5
* Language (Article 5)6

*    ????????? (?????? 1)1
*    ??? ??????? (?????? 2 ?3 ?5)4?4?3?2
*    ?????: (?????? 6)5

* Registration, de-registration   and   amending

???????

??????

???????

???????

???????

*    ???????

details of registration (Article 6)7,8
* UAE Licensing bodies (Article 7)9
* Submission	of	voluntary	disclosure (Article 10)10
* Means of notification (Article 11)11
* Natural person and juridical person tax agents (Articles 12 - 14)12-22
* Tax audits (Articles 15 - 19)23

(?????? 8)6?7
*    ???? ??????? ?? ?????? (?????? 9)7
*    ????? ??????? ?????? (?????? 10)10

*    ????? ??????? (?????? 11)11
*    ??????? ????????? ?? ??????? ????????? ????????
???????? ??????????? (?????? 12 ??? 12-22)14
*    ??????? ??????? (?????? 15 ??? 23)19

* Reconciliation in tax evasion crimes (Articles 23

)????????  23

???????

??????

?? ?????

*    ???????

and 24)24-28
* Extension of deadlines (Article 25) 29,30,31,32
* Payment of tax and administrative penalties in cases of bankruptcy (Article 27)33

24-28)24?
*    ????? ???????? (?????? 32)25?31?30?29
*    ???? ??????? ????????? ???????? ?? ????? ???????
(?????? 33)27

The detailed analysis below highlights the differences between the Previous Executive Regulation and the New Executive Regulation and provides further clarification on new or updated provisions.

???? ??????? ???????? ????? ????? ??? ?????????? ??? ??????? ????????? ??????? ???????? ????????? ???????? ????? ??? ??? ?? ??????? ??? ??????? ??????? ?? ??????? ????
?? ???????.



Detailed analysis

????? ??????




Definitions (Article 1)1
The number of definitions has been limited under Article 1 of the New Executive Regulation as the

????????? (?????? 1))1(
?? ??? ????????? ????? ?????? )1( ?? ??????? ?????????
??????? ??? ??? ????? ?? ?????????? ??? ????? ?????

definitions under Article 1 of the Decree-Law also

???

?????????  ?????  ??????  )1(  ??  ???????  ??????

apply for the New Executive Regulation. When reviewing their legal obligations and rights, all persons must ensure they refer to the definitions in the Decree-Law in conjunction with the provisions of the New Executive Regulation.
The definition of the term "assets" has been

??????? ????????? ???????. ?????? ??? ???? ??????? ??? ?????? ?????????? ??????? ?????????? ?????? ?? ?????? ???????? ??????? ?? ??????? ?????? ???????? ?? ???????
??????? ????? ?? ??????? ????????? ???????.

?? ????? ????? ????? "??????" ????? ????? ??????

expanded to include intangible assets. This means

??  ???????  ?????  ???  ????

????

????

???  ???????.

that the definition includes, for example, patents, brands, licenses, trademarks, computer programs, copyrights, goodwill and also customer lists. The definition of assets has a particular importance for the application of Article 18 of the New Executive Regulation.

??????? ?????? ???????? ????????? ???????? ?????????
?????? ??????? ????? ????? ??????? ???????? ?????? ?????  ???????.  ???????  ??????  ?????  ????  ???????
?????? ?????? )18( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????.



Accounting records and commercial books (Article 2)2
In addition to the records and books of the business, businesses must also retain all documents that support entries in the accounting records and commercial books of the business.
This includes, but is not limited to:

??????? ????????? ???????? ???????? (?????? 2))2(

???????? ??? ????? ?????? ???????? ????? ??? ??????? ???????? ????? ????????? ??????? ?????? ??????? ?? ???????
????????? ???????? ????????.


????? ???? ??? ???? ?????? ?? ?????? ?? ???:

* Relevant correspondence, invoices and tax

?????????  ????????

?????????

??? ?????

?    ?????????

invoices, licenses and agreements/contracts related to the business.
* Documents containing details of any election,

????????? ???????????/ ?????? ??? ????? ????????.

?    ????????? ???? ????? ?????? ??? ?????? ?? ?????

determination or calculation made by a taxable

??????  ???????  ???? ?????

???

?? ??

??  ??????

person in relation to its tax affairs, including the basis, method of estimation, determination made and calculation performed.

??????? ????????? ??? ?? ??? ???? ?????? ???????
???????? ????????? ???? ? ?? ?????? ??.

?    ????????? ??? ????? ???????? ????? ??????? ????    party   related   to   respect   with   Documents    ?

transactions	and	with	respect	to	the

??????????

???

????

???

????

???????

????????

circumstances under which such transactions were made, including, for example, transfer pricing documents.

?????? ??? ???? ??????? ??????? ??????? ????????.



Period of record keeping (Article 3)3,4,5

???? ??? ??????? (?????? 5))3(?4?3

All accounting records, commercials books and all

???  ????  ???????  ?????????  ????????  ????????

???

documents and information referred to under

????? ????????? ?????????? ?? ????? ????? ?? ?????? )2( ??

Article 2 of the New Executive Regulation are to be

??????  ????  ?????  ??????  ??

???????

???????   ?????????

held in a way to enable the FTA to conduct its tax

?????  ???????  ???????  ???????  ??  ??????  ?????

audits and verify a person's compliance with its tax

?????

?????????? ????????. ??? ??? ???????? ??? ??????

obligations. They must also be maintained for defined periods depending on whether a person is a taxable person or not or depending on the nature of the record or document.

???? ??? ?? ??? ??? ????? ?????? ??????? ?? ?? ????
????? ????? ?? ???????.

* The New Executive Regulation specifies that,

????  ???  ???????

???????

???????   ?????????

? ???

for real estate records, the retention period is seven years from the end of the calendar year in which such record or document was created. For example, if a property was sold on 2

???????? ??? ?? ???? ??? ??????? ???????? ??? ??? )7( ??? ????? ?? ????? ????? ???????? ???? ????
????? ??? ??????? ?? ?????????.
??? ???? ??????? ??? ?? ??? ???? ?? 2 ????? 2025?

January 2025, the end of the calendar year in

???

?????

?????

????  ??

????????

?????

?????

???

which the record is created would be 31

???

???

?????????

.2025

??????

?????  31

December 2025. Consequently, the related records and accounts must be retained until 31 December 2032.

31 ??????

???

?????

???

?????????

???????
.2032

* The general document retention period of five years will be extended by one year starting from the date of submission of a voluntary disclosure in the fifth year from the end of the relevant tax period.

?    ??? ??? ????? ???? ??? ????????? ?????? ???? ????   ??? ????? ???? ??? ???? ?? ????? ????? ????? ???? ?? ????? ?????? ?? ????? ?????? ???????? ???
?????.

This means, for example, that a taxable person

??? ???? ??????? ?? ?????? ???????

????? ????

who discovers an error requiring a voluntary

?????  ???  ?????  ?????  ?????  ????  ??

????

disclosure related to a tax period ending on 31 December 2019, and submits the voluntary disclosure application on 14 June 2024 (i.e. in the fifth year from the end of the relevant tax period), the person is required to retain the related records until 14 June 2025 although the retention period previously would have ended on 31 December 2024, except for real estate records and related documents.
* Legal representatives, as defined under Article

????? ????? ?????? ????? ?? 31 ?????? 2019? ????? ??? ??????? ?????? ?? 14 ????? 2024 (??  ??  ?????  ??????  ??  ?????  ??????  ???????? ???????)? ?????? ???? ??? ??????? ??? ????? ???
14 ????? 2025? ??? ????? ?? ?? ???? ????? ??????
???? ?????? ?? 31 ?????? 2024? ???? ???? ???
??????? ???????? ?????????? ???????? ???.



?    ????? ??? ???????? ??????????? ???? ??????? ??????

1 of the Decree-Law, are required to retain the

???????

???

???????

???????

?? )1(

?? ??????

required books and records of the person they are representing for a period of one year from the date on which such legal representation ends.
The retention periods under Article 3(1) and (2)

???????? ?????? ?????? ???? ??????? ????? ??? ????
?? ????? ?????? ??????? ???????? ???? ?????.



??? ????? ??? ??????? ????? ??????? )1( ?)2(

of   the   New   Executive   Regulation   remain

????? ?????

?? ?????? )3( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????

applicable when a person has been appointed

??? ????? ??? ????? ??????? ?????? ??????? ??

a legal representative and will continue to

??  ???

????  ??????  ???????  ????????  ????  ?????.

apply in the event that legal representation ends for that person. The period of one year is an onus on the legal representative.

??????? ????? ??? ???? ?? ??????? ?????? ????????.




Language (Article 5)6

????? (?????? 6))5(

Under the Previous Executive Regulation, the tax

??????? ????????? ???????? ??? ??? ????? ???????

?????

return, data, information, records and any other documents related to tax, had to be submitted, by default, to the FTA in Arabic.

??????? ????????? ?????????? ???????? ??? ???????
???? ??? ??? ???????? ??? ?????? ?????? ???????.

Under the New Executive Regulation, the FTA may

???????? ????  ??????  ????  ????

?????  ???????  ?????????

now accept the tax return, data, information,

????????

???????  ???????  ?????????  ??????????

?????

records and any other documents related to tax to be submitted in English or Arabic.
If the documents were submitted in English, the FTA may, at its discretion, request to translate some or all documents into Arabic within a period that the FTA will specify in its request. The

??? ???????  ????  ???  ??? ???????? ?????  ???????
                                                                                                                         ??????? ?? ??????????. ??? ?? ????? ????????? ?????? ??????????? ???? ??????? ??? ???????? ??? ????? ???? ????????? ?? ??? ???? ??? ????? ??????? ???? ???? ?????? ?????? ?? ?????. ??? ?? ???? ?????  ?????????  ???  ?????  ???????  ??????  ?????  ???????

translation into   Arabic   must   be   approved   in

??  ???????  ?????  ?????  ???

????? ???????

?? ?????

accordance with the law regulating translations in

?? ?????

?? ???????

???????   ?????????   ??????????

the UAE, which implies the requirement of using a translator who is on the translators list as defined under the Federal Law No. 6 of 2012.

???????  ????????  ???  )6(  ????

??????  ??

?????????
.2012



Procedures relating to Tax Registration, Deregistration, and Amending Details of Registration (Article 6)7,8
Under the New Executive Regulation, the list of instances is expanded in which registrants are required to notify the FTA of changes to their business data to include notification of the following changes:

??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ?????? ???????
(?????? 8))6(?7

????? ??????? ????????? ???????? ????? ????? ??????? ???? ????? ??? ???????? ???? ????? ?????? ????????? ?? ??????
??????? ???? ???? ??????? ?????????? ??????:

* E-mail address.

?   ?????? ??????????.

* Trade licence activities.
* Legal status and partnership agreement for unincorporated partnerships.

?   ????? ??????? ???????.
?   ????? ???????? ???????? ??????? ?????????? ????????.

The FTA may, according to the New Executive

???  ???????  ?????????  ????????  ???  ???????

?? ???

??????

Regulation, at its discretion but in accordance with

???????

?????

??  ??????

???????  ???????

?????

????

the relevant Tax law, deregister a registrant where the person is required to deregister for a specific tax type but fails to submit a deregistration application.
This would, for example, include the following instances:

??????? ?????? ?? ??????? ???? ????? ???? ??? ????? ????? ?????? ??????? ???? ????? ???? ????? ?? ????
?????? ??? ????? ??????? ???????.

???? ???? ???? ??? ???? ??????? ??????? ??????:

* A person continuously submits nil returns for

?   ????? ???? ???? ???????? ??????? ????? ???????

Excise	Tax,	or	where	the	value	of

??????

????????/

????

?? ???

????

???????????   ??

supplies/taxable expenses do not meet the voluntary registration threshold for the purposes of VAT registration.
* A person registered for Excise Tax ceases to manufacture or import excise goods.

??????? ??????? ??? ?? ??????? ?????? ??????
??????? ?????? ?????? ???????.

?   ???? ????? ?????? ??????? ?????????? ?? ?????
?? ??????? ????? ??????????.



UAE Licensing bodies (Article 7)9
Under the Previous Executive Regulation, with respect to trade licences, and now under Article 7 of the New Executive Regulation, licensing bodies in the UAE must now also notify the FTA, within 20 business days of any issuance or renewal, of a number of data regarding the license.
           
???? ??????? ?? ?????? (?????? 9))7( ????  ?????  ?????????  ????????  ?????  ???????  ????????? ???????? ????? ???? ??? ???? ???????? ?? ?????? ????? ?????? ???? )20( ??? ??? ??? ????? ?? ????? ????? ?? ????? ??? ?? ???????? ?????? ???????? ?? ???????
????? ?????? )7( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????.

This obligation for licensing bodies does not exonerate the concerned registrant from his obligations under Article 6(4) of the New Executive Regulation.

 ????????  ???????  ?????  ???????  ??  ?????  ?????? ??  ??????? ?????  ????? )4( ??  ?????? )6( ?? ??? ??????
??????? ????????? ???????.



Voluntary disclosure (Article 10)10
If a taxpayer becomes aware of an error or

??????? ?????? (?????? 10))10(
???  ????  ?????  ???????  ????  ???  ??  ???  ??  ???????

omission in a tax return submitted to the FTA that

????  ???????

??? ???? ???

???????  ??????  ???????

did not impact on the due tax for that tax period,

??  ???  ??????  ?????????  ?????  ?????  ?????

????????

the person is required to submit a voluntary disclosure to rectify the error.
Errors with no impact on due tax include:

???? ?????? ?????.

????? ??????? ???? ?? ???? ??? ???? ??????? ????????:

* Failing to report imported services, where the

?   ??? ??????? ?? ??????? ?????????? ?? ??? ????

business is entitled to full input tax recovery in

????????

?????

????

????????

?????

???????

respect of the supply.
* Reporting supplies in Box 1 of the VAT return
                       
???????? ????????. ?   ??????? ?? ??????? ?? ?????? )1( ?? ????? ?????

against an Emirate other than the Emirate in

?????  ???????  ???  ???  ????  ?????

???????

??????

which supplies should have been recorded.

??????? ???? ?? ???????.




Means of notification (Article 11)11
The means of notification by the FTA towards a person now also includes text messages on mobile phones, notifications through smart applications, and notifications through the FTA's electronic
                   
????? ??????? (?????? 11))11( ???? ????? ????? ?????? ????? ???? ????? ??????? ?????? ??? ?????? ??????? ?????????? ?? ???? ????????? ??????
???????  ??????????  ??????.  ????  ?????  ??????????  ??????? ???? ??????? ??? ??? ???? ????? ????? ?????? ??? ??????

systems. With respect to smart application, it

??  ???????  ???????  ????  ????  ??????

???????  ???

should be noted that the FTA's mobile application can be downloaded by both iOS and Android users since 17 April 2023 and 15 May 2023, respectively.

iOS ?Android ?? ??? ?? 17 ????? 2023 ?15 ????
2023 ??? ???????.

As under the Previous Executive Regulation, postings of notifications in the premises of the person must be made on a prominent place such as the reception area. Any other means to be used for the notification than the means listed under Article 11 of the Executive Regulation, must be agreed in writing by the person and the FTA. A verbal agreement will not be in line with the New Executive Regulation.

?? ????? ????????? ???? ???? ?? ??? ??? ????? ???? ???? ??? ????? ?????????. ???? ?? ????? ?? ??? ??????? ?????? ??? ?? ??? ????? ???? ??? ?? ?? ?????
?????????  ?????  ?????  ????????  ??  ??????  )11(  ?? ??????? ?????????? ??? ????? ???????? ??????? ??????? ??
????? ??????? ????????? ???????.



Tax Agents - Natural persons (Article 12)12,13,14


With the introduction of Corporate Tax in the UAE, the system of tax agents in the UAE is being updated. The updates are around specialism, experience required, education, registering as

??????? ????????? - ??????? ?????????
                       (?????? 12,13,14))12( ?? ????? ???? ??????? ???????? ?? ???? ???????? ??????? ??????? ?? ??????? ????? ??????? ?? ??????. ????? ????????? ?????? ???????? ???????? ???????? ???????? ???????  ?????????  ????????????  ??????  ??????????

natural vs. juridical persons, language, procedures
for tax agent listing and renewal and professional behaviour and integrity.

???????

??????

???????  ?????  ??  ???  ??????  ???????
??????? ?????? ????????.

The New Executive Regulation provides the legal framework for the system of tax agents and this framework will be further regulated through Decisions that will, amongst others, clarify requirements around continuous professional development, the national and international bodies that the FTA will recognise who can provide valid professional certification for the purposes of registering tax agents, and the number of natural person tax agents required for a juridical tax agent to be listed.

??? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ?????? ???????? ????? ??????? ?????????? ???? ??? ????? ???? ?? ??????? ???
??? ?????? ?? ???? ?????? ?????? ??? ???? ????? ????????? ?????? ???????? ?????? ???????? ????????? ??????? ???????? ???? ????? ??? ?????? ????? ?????? ?????
?????  ?????  ?????  ????  ???????  ??????  ???????? ???? ??????? ????????? ?? ??????? ????????? ????????
???? ???? ????? ???????.

A natural person wishing to register as a tax agent

??? ??? ????? ??????? ???? ???? ?? ??????? ?????

must have at least the following education and

????  ???  ?????  ???  ???????  ???????  ???

?????  ??

relevant tax, accounting or legal experience:

????? ????? ??????? ?? ???????? ?? ??????? ????? ?????:

* Three years relevant experience obtained in the preceding five years, plus a Bachelor or Masters degree in tax, accounting, or law from an educational institution recognized by the UAE competent authorities. The certification of the degree must be done in line with the UAE applicable legislation;
* Three years relevant experience obtained in the preceding five years plus a Bachelor or Masters degree in any other field (other than tax, accounting, or law) from an educational

?   ???? ????? ???? ??? ??? ?? ???????? ???? ?????
?????  ????????  ????????  ???  ??????  ???  ???? ????????? ?? ???? ??????? ?? ???? ??????? ?? ???????? ?? ??????? ?? ????? ??????? ????? ??? ?? ??? ?????? ??????? ?? ???? ????????. ???? ?? ??? ??????? ??? ?????? ??????? ?? ??? ????????? ???????
                                                                                     ?? ???? ????????? ?   ???? ????? ???? ??? ??? ?? ???????? ???? ????? ?????  ????????  ????????  ???  ??????  ???  ???? ?????????  ?? ???????  ??  ?? ????  ??? (????? ??????? ?? ???????? ?? ???????) ?? ????? ???????

institution recognized by the UAE competent

?? ????

??????  ???????

?????  ???  ??  ???

authorities, and a valid professional qualification from an approved institution as specified by the FTA for purposes of presenting such qualification. The certification of the degree must be done in line with the UAE applicable legislation; or
* Five years relevant experience obtained in the preceding eight years plus a Bachelor or Masters degree in any field from an educational institution recognized by the UAE competent authorities. The certification of the degree must be done in line with the UAE applicable legislation.

????????? ?????? ????? ????? ?? ????? ????? ??? ????? ??? ????? ?????? ?????? ????? ??? ???????. ???? ??? ??????? ??? ?????? ??????? ?? ??? ????????? ??
??????? ?? ???? ????????? ??



?   ??? ????? ???? ??? ??? ?? ???????? ???? ??????? ?????  ????????  ????????  ???  ??????  ???  ????     ?????????  ??  ???????  ??  ??  ?????  ??  ????? ??????? ????? ??? ?? ??? ?????? ??????? ?? ???? ????????. ???? ?? ??? ??????? ??? ?????? ???????
????? ????????? ??????? ?? ???? ????????.

The natural person tax agent shall need to pass a

??  ???????  ?????????

?????????

???? ??? ???????

qualification test, as will be specified by the FTA,

???  ?????

-  ???  ?????  ??????  -

??????  ?????

??????

whereby distinct tests will be in place for indirect

??   ???????   ???   ????????

????????   ??????   ???

tax and Corporate Tax. The tax agent shall also complete the necessary training, which will be on an ongoing basis, as specified by the FTA.
It is no longer a requirement for the tax agent to:

????????   ????????.   ???   ?????   ???????   ??????? ?????????  ???????  ???????  ?????  ????  ??????  ????
????? ??? ?? ????? ??????.
?? ??? ??????? ???????? ??????? ???:

* be able to communicate in both Arabic and

????????

  ??????  ??????  ???  ???????  ??????  ????? ?? ?

English as fluency in either of these languages is acceptable.
* submit proof that the person is medically fit to perform the duties of the profession.

???????  ????????????  ???  ????  ??  ???????  ?????
                                                           ???? ????? ???????.   ?????? ??? ??? ??? ?? ????? ?????? ?? ??? ????? ?????? ?
?????.

Members of the Tax Dispute Resolution Committee are not allowed to be registered as tax agents.

?? ???? ?????? ???? ?? ????????? ???????? ????????
?????? ???????.



Tax agents - Juridical persons (Article 12)15

??????? ????????? - ??????? ???????????
(?????? 15))12(

The concept of a juridical person tax agent has

???

?????   ??????   ???????   ?????????

???   ?????

been added in the UAE tax legislation. To be

??????  ???????

?????????  ????????  ?????  ?????????

registered as tax agent, a juridical person tax agent must meet the following requirements:

????? ????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????:

* Hold a trade license reflecting that the legal person is licensed as an audit, tax or law firm.

?? ????? ????? ??

?   ?? ???? ????? ????????? ???
???? ????? ?? ???? ??????.

* Hold or be covered under a valid professional indemnity insurance that is appropriate to the nature and size of the business.

?   ?? ???? ???? ????? ?? ?? ?? ???? ???? ??? ???????? ??
??? ????? ?? ????????? ?? ??????? ??????? ??????
?? ????? ???? ??????.

* Have at least one partner or director who

???? ??????

????????

?   ??  ??????  ???  ???????  ??

meets all of the requirements to be eligible to

???

?????  ????????

?????  ??????  ???????

???????

register and registers with the FTA as a natural

?????? ????? ????? ????? ????? ???? ????????

person tax agent who supervises the services provided by the juridical person, and does not work for another juridical person or for its benefit.
* Meet any additional conditions prescribed by the FTA.

???  ???????  ????  ??????  ?????  ??????????  ????
???? ??? ??? ??????? ??? ?? ??????.



?   ?? ?????? ?? ???? ?????? ?????? ??????.

It must be noted that tax agents will be listed separately as Corporate Tax and Indirect tax (VAT and Excise Tax) agents. Separate training and qualifying examinations will be specified or prescribed.

???? ??????? ??? ??? ???? ??? ??????? ????????? ???? ?????   ??????   ??????   ??????   ???????   ?????? ???????  ???????  ???  ????????  (??  ??????  ?????? ??????? ???????? ??????????.) ???? ????? ???????? ???????
???????? ??????.

A tax agent can be listed for both Corporate Tax

? ?? ????? ???????

???? ?????? ??????? ??????? ??

and Indirect tax but can only represent a person for the category that he has been appointed for by that person.

???????? ??? ????????? ??? ??? ????? ????? ????? ???
????? ???? ? ?? ?????? ???????? ?? ??? ??? ?????.



Tax agents - Listing and de-listing (Article 13)16-21


The New Executive Regulation stated detailed procedures for listing and delisting tax agents, including:

??????? ????????? - ????? ?? ????? ???????
16-21))13( ??????(
??? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ??????? ??????? ??
??? ??? ?????? ??? ??????? ?????????? ????? ?? ???:

* If a person fails to pay the relevant fees to be

?? ???  ????? ?????  ??????  ????????  ????? ??

? ???

listed as a tax agent within 20 business days from the date of being notified of meeting the tax agent eligibility criteria, the application to be listed as a tax agent is considered to be cancelled.

????? ????? ????? ???? )20( ??? ??? ?? ?????
??????? ???????? ?????? ?????? ??????? ????? ??????
?????? ??? ??????? ????? ????? ???????.

In such instance, a new application may be submitted if the person wishes to be listed as a tax agent.

?? ??? ??? ??????? ??? ????? ????? ??? ???? ??
??? ????? ?? ??????? ????? ?????.

* Every natural person tax agent is required to

??????

?????

?????

?????

????

??? ??

?    ?????

renew his/her tax agent registration every

???

?????

?????

??????

????

????? ??

?????

three years whereas juridical tax agents are required to renew their registration every year. Renewal applications have to be submitted at least twenty business days before the expiration of the tax agent's listing, and the relevant renewal fee has to be paid to the FTA within the prescribed period.
* Any renewal request submitted later than 20 business days before the date the listing expires, is treated as a new application and not a renewal request.

??????? ???????? ?????????? ????? ??????? ?? ???.

??? ????? ????? ??????? ?? ???? ????? )20( ??? ??? ??? ?????? ??? ?????? ??????? ?? ?????? ????? ?????? ??????? ??? ????? ??? ?????? ???? ????? ????
??????.

?   ?????? ?? ??? ????? ???? ??? ?????? ???? ??? )20(
??? ??? ???? ???? ????? ?????? ?????? ???? ????
???? ???? ?????.

If a tax agent fails to apply for a renewal before

???????  ???

???  ??  ???  ??????  ???????  ??????  ???

the expiry of the listing, the person will be removed from the tax agent list and the person will no longer be allowed to practice as a tax agent.
In such instance, the person may submit a new application (including all the required documents) to be listed as a tax agent.
Furthermore, the person will be delinked from all taxpayers for which the person acted as tax agent.

?????? ?????? ??? ???? ?? ??? ??????? ????????? ???
????? ?? ??????? ???? ?????? ???????.



?? ??? ??? ??????? ???? ????? ????? ??? ???? (????? ???? ????????? ????????) ????? ?? ?????
                                                          ????? ?????. ???????? ??? ???? ???? ?? ??? ????? ????? ?????
??????? ????? ?????? ???? ???? ?????.

The FTA is obliged to de-list a tax agent if:

??? ?????? ????? ??? ?????? ??????? ?? ??? ???? ??
????:

* It was proven to the FTA that the tax agent is unable to fulfil its duties or functions, or no longer meets the conditions to be eligible to be listed as a tax agent.
* The FTA has serious grounds to believe that the continued listing of the person as a tax agent would adversely affect the integrity of the tax system in the UAE.
* The tax agent committed a serious violation of the provisions of the Decree-Law or the tax law, or committed, participated in or facilitated tax evasion.
* The FTA becomes aware that the tax agent is a current member of the Tax Dispute Resolution Committee.

?    ??? ???  ??????  ??  ?????? ??????? ?? ??????  ??????
?????? ?? ??????? ?? ?? ??? ???????? ?????? ?????
?????? ????? ????? ?????.

?    ???  ????  ???  ??????  ?????  ????  ???  ???????  ???
????? ????? ????? ?? ???? ?? ???? ????? ???
????? ?????? ?????? ??????? ?? ??????.

?   ??? ????? ?????? ??????? ?? ?????? ????? ??????
??????? ?????? ?? ??????? ??????? ?? ??? ???????
??????? ?? ???????? ??? ?? ??????.

?    ??? ???? ?????? ?? ?????? ??????? ?? ??? ???? ??
???? ?? ????????? ????????.



Tax agents - Obligations and rights (Article 14)22


In addition to the obligations in the Previous Executive Regulation, the following have been added:

??????? ????????? - ?????????? ???????
(?????? 22))14(
????? ?????????? ???????? ??? ??????? ????????? ??
??????? ????????? ???????? ??? ????? ?????:

* Tax agents have to meet continuing professional	development	(CPD) requirements, as specified by the FTA.
* Tax agents are required to retain information, documents, records and data in respect of any person the tax agent represents.

?   ????? ??? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??????? ??????
??????? ?????? ??? ????? ???? ????? ??????.

?    ?????  ???  ???????  ?????????  ????????  ??????????
?????????? ???????? ????????? ?????? ??? ???
?????.




Tax audits (Article 16)23
Under the New Executive Regulation, the FTA is now required to give a person at least 10 business- day notice before conducting a tax audit.
                 
??????? ??????? (?????? 23))16( ?????  ??????  ?????????  ????????  ????  ???  ??????  ????? ????? ???????? ??????? ??? )10( ???? ??? ??? ?????
?? ?????? ???????? ???????.

Overall, the procedures of the tax audit and the

???   ???????   ???????   ???????   ???????

???? ????

rights and obligations remain the same as already in effect. The New Executive Regulation contains some changes and updates, including:

??????????? ????? ??? ??. ??? ?? ??????? ????????? ???????
????? ??? ????????? ??????????? ?? ?????:

* The right for the FTA auditor to also mark

?? ??? ??????

?   ???? ????? ??????? ?????? ?????? ??

original documents for the purpose of indicating that they have been inspected.
* In its record of what was removed for tax audit purposes, to be provided by the FTA, the FTA must include not only the nature of a

??? ????????? ??????? ???? ??????? ??? ??????
????????.
?   ??? ?? ???? ?????? ?? ?????? ???? ????? ?? ? ?? ?????? ???? ?????? ??????? ???????? ??????? ??? ?????? ??????? ??? ??? ????? ??????? ???? ?? ??????

document   that   was   removed   but   also   a

????? ???? ???????. ???? ?????? ??

???? ???? ??

description of this document. This is for the purposes of increased clarity and legal certainty.

????? ?????? ??????? ????????.

* In case the FTA intends to dispose of an asset,

???  ??

???

??  ??????

??????

??????

????

? ???

it can also notify other specified persons

?? ????? ?? ??

?????? ????? ??????? ????? ?????? ??

instead of the owner of the asset, of its intention where notification of the owner is not possible.

??????? ???????? ????? ?? ??????? ??????? ???????
?? ?????.

* A request from a person to view or obtain

?????  ???????  ??

? ??? ??? ?????? ????? ???

documents, data and information on which the FTA based an assessment of due tax, shall be met by the FTA within 10 business days (previously 20 business days) from the date of

?????? ???  ????????? ????????? ??????????  ???? ?????? ????? ?????? ?? ????? ??????? ???????? ???? )10( ???? ??? 20( ??? ??? ??? ???) ?? ????? ?????? ?????? ???? ?? ?????? ??????????? ??????? ?????

receiving the request, but subject to the

)4( ?? ?????? )19( ?? ??????? ?????????

?? ?????

exceptions under Article 19(4) of the New Executive Regulation.

???????.



Reconciliation process - Tax Evasion crimes (Articles 23 and 24)24-28
For tax evasion crimes and the deliberate failure to

??????? ??????? - ????? ?????? ???????
(???????? )23( ?24-28))24(
???? ????? ????? ??? ??????? ??? ?????? ?????? ??????

settle administrative penalties, a person may

????????? ?????? ?? ???? ???????? ?????????

???????

submit a reconciliation application to the FTA

???  ?????  ??????  ?????????  ?????  ??  ?????

????

before the initiation of the criminal case, provided

??????? ???????? ????? ?????????

????? ????? ????

that the person undertakes to settle the full amounts of payable tax and administrative penalties to the FTA as consideration for the reconciliation.
Also, before a criminal case is initiated, for the






????????

???????? ??? ?????? ?????? ???????.




?????  ???  ?????  ????  ??????  ??  ???????

specific tax crimes that are specified under Article 25(4) of the Decree-Law, and where these crimes resulted in tax evasion or facilitated or concealed tax evasion, the person must first make a payment of AED 50,000 before the FTA may reconcile. Reconciliation shall be made by settling the full amounts of payable tax and administrative penalties to the FTA.
If the FTA accepts the reconciliation application, a record shall be issued containing proof of the reconciliation and its consideration. This document has to be signed by both parties, i.e. the FTA and the person who submitted the reconciliation application. The FTA will provide a copy of such record to the person after payment of the full

??????? ?? ????? )4( ?? ?????? )25( ?? ??????? ??????? ??? ?? ??? ??????? ?????? ??????? ?? ??? ??? ?????? ????
?? ??????? ??? ??? ????? ????? ???? ???? )50,000(
????? ??? ???? ??? ??????? ?? ??????. ????? ??????? ?????  ????  ???????  ????????  ?????  ?????????  ????????
??????.



??? ???? ?????? ???? ???????? ??????? ???? ???? ????? ??????? ??????? ?????? ???????? ?? ?????? ?? ? ??? ??? ???????. ?????? ?????? ???? ?? ????? ?????? ????
?????? ????? ??? ???? ????? ??????? ??????.

consideration for the reconciliation.
The accused or convicted person may submit a reconciliation application to the competent federal public prosecution at any stage of the criminal case. The public prosecution shall seek the FTA's opinion before proceeding with reconciliation procedures in tax crimes.


???? ?????? ?? ??????? ????? ?? ?? ????? ?? ????? ??????  ????????  ?????  ???  ???????  ???  ???????  ???? ??? ????????? ???????. ?????? ??? ??????? ???? ??? ??????? ??? ?????? ??? ????? ?????? ?? ??????? ??????? ?? ???????
????????.

Depending on the stage of the criminal case, also

?????????  ???  ??  ???  ????

?????  ??????

????

???

including the stage after issuance of a conviction judgement, and on the nature of the tax crime,

????? ?? ??? ???? ????? ????????? ???? ???? ????? ??????? ????????? ???? ??????? ?? ??? ????? ???? ????

reconciliation can be made subject to settling the

????????  ???

????????

?????????

?????? ?????

???????

full amount of payable tax and administrative penalties plus an additional amount calculated as a percentage of the tax evaded and, in some cases, plus an additional fixed amount.
If the public prosecution accepts the reconciliation application, it shall issue a record of reconciliation after the full settlement of the full tax and administrative penalties payable and additional consideration for the reconciliation.

????? ????? ??????? ?? ?? ??????? ????? ????? ?? ??????? ? ?? ?????? ????? ??? ??? ???????? ???????? ??? ????
???? ???? ?????.

 ??? ?????? ???????  ???? ??? ???  ??? ????????  ???? ???? ???????? ??? ???? ???? ??????? ????????? ?? ?????
???????? ?????? ????? ???????? ??????? ???????.

The record must be signed by both the competent

?? ??? ??????? ???? ??? ?

??? ????? ?????? ?? ??? ?

public prosecution member and the accused or convicted person, approved by the federal attorney general, and include the following:

?????? ??????? ?? ??????? ????? ?????? ?? ?????? ???? ??
???????? ???? ?? ????? ?? ????:

* The details of the accused or convicted person.
* A description of the charges attributed to the accused or the convicted person, the date and place of their occurrence and the articles of law applicable thereto.

?   ?????? ?????? ?? ??????? ????.
?   ????? ????? ???????? ?????? ?? ??????? ???? ??????
????? ?????? ????? ??????? ???????? ?????.

* The value of the tax and administrative penalties payable.
* The percentage and value of the additional amount of consideration for the reconciliation.

?   ????? ??????? ????????? ???????? ?????? ?????.

?   ???? ???? ?????? ??????? ??????? ???????.



Extension of deadlines (Article 25)29,30,31,32
The FTA may extend the deadline for deciding on a tax assessment review request and a request for reconsideration for a period of 20 business days if the extension is necessary to decide on the request.
The FTA may, at the request of the concerned persons, extend the deadline for accepting the submission of a tax assessment review request or a reconsideration request, in the cases deemed appropriate by the FTA.
The Tax Disputes Resolution Committee may extend the deadline for deciding on a Tax objection for a period of 60 business days if the extension is necessary to decide on the objection.
The Tax Disputes Resolution Committee may, at the request of a concerned person, extend the deadline for accepting the submission a tax objection if the late submission of the tax objection was due to circumstances beyond the person's control, sudden accident, emergency circumstances or force majeure that prevented them from submitting the tax objection within the specified period.
              
????? ???????? (?????? 32)25?31?30?29 ????  ??????  ?????  ???  ????  ??  ???  ??????  ??????? ??????? ???? ????? ????? ???? )20( ??? ??? ??? ???
??????? ??????? ???? ?? ?????.


???? ??????? ??? ?? ??? ??? ??? ?????? ????? ??? ????
????? ??? ?????? ??????? ??????? ?? ??? ????? ??????
?? ??????? ???? ?????? ??????.



???? ????? ?? ????????? ???????? ????? ??? ???? ?? ???????? ??????? ???? )60( ??? ??? ??? ??? ???????
??????? ???? ?? ????????.

???? ????? ?? ????????? ????????? ??? ?? ??? ??? ??? ?????? ????? ???? ???? ????? ???????? ??????? ??? ??? ????? ????? ???????? ??????? ????? ????? ?? ?? ?? ???? ?? ???? ????? ?? ???? ????? ?? ??? ????? ???? ??? ??????  ???  ??????  ?????????  ???????  ???  ????????
???????.




Bankruptcy (Article 27)33
The FTA shall notify the appointed bankruptcy trustee of the amount of the due tax in respect of the business subject to bankruptcy and, where applicable, of its intention to perform a tax audit for specific tax period(s), within 20 business days after being notified of the trustee's appointment.

??????? (?????? 33))27(
????? ??? ?????? ????? ???? ???????? ?????? ?????? ???????
???????? ???? ????? ???????? ??????? ???????? ???????? ???? ????????? ??????? ?????? ??????? ??????? ??? ???? ?? ????? ????? ?????? ???? )20( ????? ??? ??? ??
????? ????? ?????? ?????? ???? ????????.



Abrogation (Article 30)34

????????? (?????? 34))30(

Decisions issued   by   the   FTA   and   procedures

?????  ?????????  ???????  ??  ??????  ??????????

?????

applied by it for the implementation of the

???????? ??? ????

??????? ?? ????? ??????? ?????? ?????????

Previous Executive Regulation shall remain in force, insofar as they do not contradict with the provisions of the New Executive Regulation until the issuance of decisions and procedures replacing them.

???? ?? ?????? ?? ????? ??????? ????????? ???????? ????
??? ??? ???? ?????? ???????? ??? ?????.



Effective date (Article 31)35
The New Executive Regulation shall be published in the   Official Gazette   and come   into effect   on 1 August 2023, except for the provisions relating to the conditions for registering juridical tax agents which comes into effect on 1 December 2023. This
1 December date allows juridical persons to prepare for compliance with the conditions to be listed as tax agents.
              
????? ????? ??????? (?????? 35))31( ??????? ????????? ??????? ?? ??????? ???????? ?????? ?? 1 ????? 2023? ???? ??? ??????? ???????? ????? ??????? ????????? ??????????? ????? ????? ??? ???????? 1 ?????? .2023 ???? ????? 1 ?????? ????? ???????  ?????????  ????????  ?????  ????? ??? ????? ??? ?? ???????  ???????????
?????? ???????.




This Public Clarification issued by the FTA is meant to clarify certain aspects related to the implementation of Cabinet Decision No. 74 of 2023 on the Executive Regulation of Federal Decree-Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures.
This Public Clarification states the position of the FTA and neither amends nor seeks to amend any provision of the aforementioned legislation. Therefore, it is effective as of the date of implementation of the relevant legislation, unless stated otherwise.

???? ??? ??????? ????? ?????? ?? ?????? ????????? ??????? ???
????? ??? ???????? ???????? ?????? ???? ???? ??????? ??? )74(
???? 2023 ?? ??? ??????? ????????? ??????? ?????? ?????? ??? )28(
                                                 ???? 2022 ?? ??? ????????? ????????. ??????? ????? ????? ???? ?????? ????????? ??????? ??? ?????? ???? ??? ????? ?? ?? ????? ????????? ????????. ?????? ??? ??? ??? ????? ???? ?????? ?? ?? ????? ????? ????????? ???????? ??? ???????
????????? ?? ?? ??? ????? ???? ??? ?? ????.



Legislative References:
In this clarification, Cabinet Decision No. 74 on the Executive Regulation of Federal Decree-Law No. 28 of 2022 on Tax Procedures is referred to as " New Executive Regulation".
                              
??????? ????????? ?? ??? ???????? ????? ??? ???? ???? ??????? ??? )74( ?? ??? ??????? ????????? ??????? ?????? ?????? ??? )28( ???? 2022 ?? ???
????????? ???????? ?????? "??????? ????????? ???????."

1.        Article 1 of the New Executive Regulation defines the term "asset" as tangible and intangible assets, including equipment, machinery, goods and others, which the FTA considers to be owned, leased or used in connection with the conduct of business by any person.
2. Article 2(1)(b) of the New Executive Regulation states that all documents supporting the entries in the accounting records and commercial books, including but not limited to:

.1     ??? ??? ?????? )1( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ????? "??????"
??? ???? ?????? ??????? ???? ??????? ??? ???? ?????? ???????? ????????  ???????  ????  ???????  ??????  ??????  ??  ?????  ??
??????? ?????? ?????? ??????? ??????? ?? ??? ?? ???.

.2     ??? ?????? (?) ?? ????? )1( ?? ?????? )2( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ?? ???? ??????? ????????? ???????? ???????? ???? ?????????  ????  ????  ??????  ???????  ??  ???????  ?????????
???????? ????????? ??? ?? ??? ??? ???? ?????? ?? ?????:

(1) Correspondence, invoices, licenses and contracts related to the Business.
(2) Documents containing details of any election, assessment, determination or calculation made by a taxpayer in relation to the tax affairs of its business, including the basis, or method of assessment, determination or calculation made.

????????? ????????? ????????? ??????? ???????? ????????.

?????????  ???? ?????  ????????  ??????  ???  ??????  ?? ????? ?? ????? ?? ?????? ??? ?? ???? ??????? ???? ????? ???????  ????????  ??????? ???  ??  ??? ????  ??  ?????
??????? ?? ??????? ?? ???????? ???? ?? ?????? ??.

)1(

)2(

3.	Article 3(1)(c) of the New Executive Regulation states that

.3     ????? ?????? (?) ?? ????? )1( ?? ?????? )3( ?? ??????? ?????????

all accounting records, commercial books and information

???  ???  ????  ????  ???????  ?????????  ????????

????????

shall be retained and maintained in a way that enables the FTA or any employee authorised by it to verify the tax

???????? ??????????? ??? ??? ???? ?????? ?? ?? ???? ???? ??  ?????  ??  ??????  ??  ??????????  ????????  ????????  ???

obligations imposed on the person concerned for a period of (7) seven years from the end of the calendar year in which the concerned document was created for real estate records, unless the tax law states otherwise.
4. Article 3(2)(d) of the New Executive Regulation states that, in addition to the periods specified in Clause (1) of this Article, the person shall retain the books and records for an additional period of (1) one year starting from the date of submission of a voluntary disclosure in respect of the taxable person that submits a voluntary disclosure in the fifth year from the end of the relevant tax period.

????? ??????? ???? )7( ??? ????? ?? ?????? ????? ?????????
???? ?? ????? ??????? ?????? ?????? ???? ????? ???????? ?????????
?? ?? ??? ??????? ??????? ???? ???.

.4     ??? ?????? (?) ?? ????? )2( ?? ?????? )3( ?? ??????? ?????????
??????? ??? ??? ???????? ??? ????? ?????? ????? ?? ????? )1( ?? ??? ??????? ????? ??? ????? ???????? ???????? ???????? ???? ??? ?????? ???? ?? ????? ????? ??????? ?????? ??????? ?????? ???? ???? ??????? ?????? ?? ????? ??????? ?? ????? ???????
?????? ???????? ??? ?????.


5. Article 3(3) of the New Executive Regulation states that, subject to Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the legal representative shall retain the books and records of the person he is representing for a period of (1) one year from the date on which such legal representation expires.
6.      Article 5(2) of the New Executive Regulation states that the translation of any tax return, data, information, records, documents or other books into Arabic must be approved in accordance with the law regulating translation in the UAE, and submitted to the FTA within the period it specifies.
7. Article 6(4) of the New Executive Regulation states that a registrant shall notify the FTA, in the form and manner approved by it, within (20) twenty business days of any change to their data kept with the FTA, including:

.5     ??? ????? )3( ?? ?????? )3( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ???
?? ?????? ??????? )1( ?)2( ?? ??? ??????? ????? ??? ?????? ???????? ???????? ???????? ???????? ?????? ?????? ???? ?????
???? ??? ????? ??? ?? ??????? ???? ????? ??? ??? ??????? ????????.

.6     ????? ????? )2( ?? ?????? )5( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ??? ?? ???? ????? ?? ????? ????? ?? ?????? ?? ??????? ?? ????? ?? ??????? ?? ????? ???? ??? ????? ??????? ?????? ??? ???????
?????? ??????? ?? ??????? ????? ?????? ???? ????? ???? ??????.


.7     ????? ????? )4( ?? ?????? )6( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ??? ?????? ????? ??????? ?? ??? ??????? ??????? ???????? ?????? ???? )20( ????? ??? ??? ??? ????? ???? ??? ??????? ????????
?????? ??? ?? ???:

a. Name, address and email address.
b. Trade licence activities.
c. Legal entity type, partnership agreement for unincorporated partnerships and articles of association or its equivalent.
d. Nature of the business of the Registrant.
e. The address from which any business is conducted by the registrant.

?.     ????? ???????? ??????? ??????????.
                   ?.   ?????? ?????? ?? ?????? ????????. ?.    ????? ???????? ???? ??????? ??????? ?????????? ????????
???? ??????? ??? ??????.

?.    ????? ????? ??????.
?.    ??. ??????? ???? ????? ??? ?????? ?? ?????.

8.      Article 6(7) of the New Executive Regulation states that, in cases where the registrant does not submit a deregistration application, the FTA may deregister such registrant in accordance with the controls and procedures stated in the tax law.

.8     ??? ????? )7( ?? ?????? )6( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ??? ?? ??????? ???? ?? ????? ???? ?????? ?????? ??? ????? ?????? ????????   ???????   ?????   ??????   ???????   ?????   ???????
?????????? ??????? ?? ??????? ???????.

9.	Article 7 of the New Executive Regulation states that the

?????  ??????

.9     ?????  ??????  )7(  ??  ???????  ?????????  ????????

government entities that grant licences to persons carrying out business shall, within (20) twenty business days of the issuance or renewal of the licence, notify the FTA in the manner specified by it. The notification shall include the following:

???????? ??????? ???? ???????? ???????  ??????? ???????? ???? )20( ????? ??? ??? ?? ????? ????? ??????? ?? ??????? ?????? ?????? ??? ?????? ??????? ?? ?????? ?????? ??
????? ??????? ?? ????:

1. The name of the licensee.
2. The type, number and date of issuance of the trade licence.
3. The registered address of the licensee.
4. Description of the activities of the business.
5. The details of the owners, partners and directors.

6. Any other information requested by the FTA.

.1    ??? ?????? ??.
.2    ??? ???? ?????? ????? ?????? ????????.
.3    ??????? ?????? ?????? ??.
.4    ??? ?????? ???????.
.5    ???????? ?????? ????????? ???????? ?????????.
.6    ?? ??????? ???? ?????? ??????.

10.      Article 10(3) of the New Executive Regulation states that if a taxpayer becomes aware of an error or omission in the tax return submitted to the FTA without there being a difference in due tax, the taxpayer shall correct the error or submit a voluntary disclosure to the FTA as may be specified by the FTA.
11. Article 11(1) of the New Executive Regulation states that the FTA shall notify the person, its tax agent or legal representative, as applicable, at the address registered with the FTA by any of the following means:

????? ????? )3( ?? ?????? )10( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ??? ???? ????? ??????? ???? ??? ?? ??? ?? ??????? ??????? ?????? ??????? ??? ?? ???? ???? ???? ?? ???? ??????? ????????? ?????
????? ????? ?? ????? ????? ????? ????? ??? ????? ??????.


??? ????? )1( ?? ?????? )11( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ???
?? ???? ?????? ?????? ????? ?? ????? ??????? ?? ????? ????????? ????  ????????  ???  ???????  ?????? ?????  ??  ????  ??  ??
??????? ??????:

.10










.11

a. Post, registered post, email, mobile text message, smart applications or the electronic system of the FTA.
b. Posting in a prominent place in the premises of the person.
c. Any other means as may be agreed in writing by the person and the FTA.

?.     ??????  ??  ??????  ??????  ??  ??????  ??????????  ?? ??????? ?????? ??? ?????? ??????? ?? ?????????
?????? ?? ?????? ?????????? ??????.
?.   ????? ??? ???? ???? ?? ??? ?????.

?.   ?? ????? ???? ??? ??????? ????? ?????? ??? ?????
???????.

12.   Article 12(1)(c) of the New Executive Regulation states that a natural person wishing to be listed in the register of tax agents shall have the minimum education and relevant experience in tax, accounting or law, in any of the following forms:

????? ?????? (?) ?? ????? )1( ?? ?????? )12( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ??? ????? ??????? ?????? ?????? ?? ??? ??????? ?????????? ?? ????? ????? ?????? ?? ??????? ??????? ??? ????? ????? ??????? ?? ???????? ?? ???????? ???? ??? ?? ?????
??????:


.12

(1) Experience of at least (3) three years obtained in the last (5) five years and hold at least a certified bachelor degree or masters in tax, accounting or law from an education institution recognised by the competent authority in the UAE.
(2) Experience of at least (3) three years obtained in the last (5) five years and hold a certified bachelor degree in any other field from an educational institution recognised by the competent authority in the UAE, in addition to a valid professional qualification from a recognised institution, as may be prescribed by the FTA.
(3) Experience of at least (5) five years obtained in the last (8) eight years and hold a certified bachelor degree in any other field from an education institution recognised by the competent authority in the UAE.

????  ??  ???  ?????  ??  )3(  ????  ?????  ??????  ???? ??????? ????? ???????? ????? ??? ???? ????????? ??  ???????  ???  ?????  ??????  ??  ????  ???????  ?? ???????? ?? ??????? ?? ????? ??????? ????? ??? ?? ???
                                                              ????? ??????? ?? ??????. ????  ??  ???  ?????  ??  )3(  ????  ?????  ??????  ???? ??????? ????? ???????? ????? ??? ???? ????????? ?????? ?? ?? ???? ??? ?? ????? ??????? ????? ??? ?? ??? ????? ??????? ?? ?????? ???????? ??? ????? ????? ?????  ??  ?????  ?????  ????  ???  ?????  ????  ?????
??????.

????  ??  ???  ?????  ??  )5(  ???  ?????  ??????  ???? ??????? ??????? ???????? ????? ??? ???? ????????? ?????? ?? ?? ???? ??? ?? ????? ??????? ????? ??? ??
??? ????? ??????? ?? ??????.

)1(






)2(








)3(

13. Article 12(1)(e) of the New Executive Regulation states that a natural person wishing to be listed in the register of tax agents shall have the ability to communicate orally and in writing in Arabic or English.
14. Article 12(1)(h) of the New Executive Regulation states that a natural person wishing to be listed in the register of tax agents must not be a current member of the Committee.
15. Article 12(2) of the New Executive Regulation states that a juridical person wishing to be listed in the register of tax agents shall satisfy all of the following conditions:

????? ?????? (??) ?? ????? )1( ?? ?????? )12( ?? ??????? ?????????
???????? ??? ????? ??????? ?????? ?????? ?? ??? ???????
?????????? ?? ???? ????? ??????? ?? ?????????? ?????? ??????.

????? ?????? (?) ?? ????? )1( ?? ?????? )12( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ??? ????? ??????? ?????? ?????? ?? ??? ???????
?????????? ??? ???? ????? ?????? ?? ??????.

????? ????? )2( ?? ?????? )12( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ???
????? ????????? ?????? ?????? ?? ??? ??????? ??????????
??????? ???? ?????? ??????:

.13







.14







.15

a. Be licensed as an audit, tax or law firm.

?.     ?? ???? ?????? ????? ????? ?? ???? ????? ?? ????
??????.

b. Hold or be covered under a valid professional indemnity insurance that is appropriate to the nature and size of its business.

c. At least one director or partner that meets all of the natural person requirements in Clause 1 of this Article, is supervising the services provided by the juridical person and does not work for another juridical person or for its benefit.

?? ???? ???? ????? ?? ???? ???? ??? ???????? ?? ??? ?????  ?????????  ??  ???????  ???????  ??????  ??  ?????  ???? ?. ??
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ??????. ?. ?? ?????? ??? ??????? ?? ???????? ???? ?????? ??????? ????? ??????? ?? ????? )1( ?? ??? ?????? ??? ???? ??? ??????? ???? ?????? ????? ????????? ???? ???? ??? ???
??????? ??? ?? ??????.



d. Meet any additional conditions prescribed by the FTA.

?. ?? ?????? ?? ???? ?????? ?????? ??????.



16. Article 13(4) of the New Executive Regulation states that the fees due in accordance with Clause 3 of this Article must be paid within (20) twenty business days from the date of notification of the approval. If the fees due are not paid within this period, the application shall be considered cancelled.
17. Article 13(8) of the New Executive Regulation states that the listing in the register shall be for three (3) three years for natural person and (1) one year for a juridical person from the date of listing and the tax agent may apply to the FTA to renew the listing no later than (20) twenty business days before the expiration of its listing and shall pay the required fees by the date specified by the FTA.
18. Article 13(9) of the New Executive Regulation states that any renewal request submitted after the elapse of the period set out in Clause 8 of this Article shall be treated as a new application and must meet the conditions set out in Article 12 of the New Executive Regulation.
19.  Article 13(10) of the New Executive Regulation states that, if the tax agent does not make an application to renew its listing before the expiration of the durations referred to in Clause 8 of this Article, its registration shall be cancelled and its link to all the persons it represents with the FTA shall be revoked, as of the expiration date of its listing in the register.

????? ????? )4( ?? ?????? )13( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ???
???? ?????? ???????? ?? ??? ????? )3( ?? ??? ?????? ???? )20( ?????  ???  ???  ?? ?????  ??????? ?????????? ???? ??  ???  ????
?????? ???????? ???? ??? ??????? ????? ????? ??? ????.


??? ????? )8( ?? ?????? )13( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ?? ???? ????? ?? ????? ???? )3( ???? ????? ?? ????? ?????
????? ??????? ????? ??? ?? ????? ????? ????? ?????????? ????? ?????? ??????? ?????? ???? ?????? ?????? ???? ?? ????? ??? ?? ??? ??? ?? ???? ????? )20( ????? ??? ??? ???
?????? ???? ????? ?????? ??????? ???? ????? ???? ?????? ??????.

??? ????? )8( ?? ?????? )13( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ?? ????? ?? ??? ????? ???? ??? ?????? ????? ?????? ?? ????? )8( ?? ??? ?????? ???? ???? ???? ?? ?????? ?????? ???????
?? ?????? )12( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????.

????? ????? )10( ?? ?????? )13( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ??? ?? ??? ?????? ??????? ?????? ??? ????? ???? ??? ?????? ????? ? ?????? ????? ?? ????? )8( ?? ??? ??????? ??? ????? ?????? ???
????? ??????? ????? ??????? ??? ??????? ???????? ?? ????? ????
?????? ???? ?? ?????.

.16










.17












.18








.19



20. Article 13(13) of the New Executive Regulation states the FTA shall de-list the tax agent from the register in any of the following cases:

????? ????? )13( ?? ?????? )13( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ??? ?????? ????? ??? ?????? ??????? ?? ????? ?? ?? ?? ???????
??????:

.20

a. If the FTA has determined that the tax agent is unable to fulfil its duties or functions, or is no longer meeting the conditions specified in Article 12 of the New Executive Regulation.

?.     ??? ??? ?????? ??? ?? ?????? ?????? ?????? ?? ??????? ?? ?? ??? ???????? ?????? ??????? ?? ?????? )12( ?? ???????
????????? ???????.



b. If the FTA has serious grounds to believe that the continued listing of the person as a tax agent would adversely affect the integrity of the tax system in the UAE.

?.   ??? ???? ??? ?????? ????? ???? ??? ??????? ??? ????? ????? ????? ?? ????? ?? ???? ?? ???? ????? ??? ?????
?????? ?????? ??????? ?? ??????.



c. If the tax agent committed a serious violation of the provisions of the Decree-Law or the tax law or committed or participated in tax evasion.

?.   ???  ?????  ??  ??????  ?????  ??????  ???????  ??????  ??
??????? ??????? ?? ??? ?? ???? ?? ???? ??? ???????.



d. If the FTA found out that the tax agent is a current member of the Committee.

?.    ??? ???? ?????? ??? ??? ???? ?? ??????.



21. Article 13(15) of the New Executive Regulation states that Clause 14 of this Article shall result in the tax agent being delinked from all persons it represents before the FTA, after (5) five business days from the date of notification of the FTA's decision.
22.    Article 14(1)(e) of the New Executive Regulation states

??? ????? )15( ?? ?????? )13( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ??? ?????? ??? ????? )14( ?? ??? ?????? ?? ??? ?????? ??????? ????? ??????? ????? ??????? ??? ?????? ??? )5( ???? ???? ???
?? ????? ??????? ????? ??????.

????? ?????? (??) ?? ????? )1( ?? ?????? )14( ?? ??????? ?????????

.21








.22

that, in performing its duties, the tax agent shall keep

???  ??????  ???????  ???  ??????  ??????  ????????

????????

information, documents, records and data in respect of any person represented by the tax agent.
23. Article 16(1) of the New Executive Regulation states the FTA shall notify the person of a tax audit, at least (10) ten business days prior to the tax audit, and the notification shall set out the possible consequences of obstructing the tax auditor in the exercise of his duty.
24. Article 23(2) of the New Executive Regulation states that prior to initiating a criminal case, the FTA may reconcile in tax crimes stipulated in Clause 4 of Article 25 of the Decree-Law, after the settlement of an amount of (50,000) fifty thousand Dirhams. If any of these crimes

?????????? ?????????? ???????? ????????? ???????? ??? ???
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ?????. ????? ????? )1( ?? ?????? )16( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ??? ?????? ????? ????? ???????? ??????? ??? )10( ???? ???? ??? ??? ????? ?? ?????? ???????? ???????? ???? ?? ????? ??????? ?????? ?? ??? ?????? ??????? ??? ??????? ???????? ???? ???? ??
                                                ???? ?? ????? ?????? ???? ??????? ?????. ??? ????? )2( ?? ?????? )23( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ???  ??????  ??????  ?????  ??????  ????????  ???????  ??  ??????? ???????  ?????  ??  ?????  )4(  ??  ??????  )25(  ??  ??????? ??????? ??? ???? ???? )50,000( ????? ??? ????? ???? ??? ??






.23









.24

resulted in tax evasion or facilitated or concealed tax evasion, reconciliation shall be made by paying the amount set forth in Clause 1 of this Article.
25.    Article 24(1) of the New Executive Regulation states that a reconciliation application shall be submitted by the person to the FTA in the form prepared by the FTA for this purpose, before the initiation of a criminal case. The form must include the person's undertaking to settle the full amounts due from him as consideration for reconciliation.
26. Article 24(2) of the New Executive Regulation states that the FTA decides to accept or reject the reconciliation application, if the FTA decides to accept the application, a record shall be issued to that effect containing proof of reconciliation and its consideration, and signed by both parties. A copy of such record shall be handed to the person after payment of the consideration for reconciliation.
27.    Article 24(3) of the New Executive Regulation states that

?? ??? ??????? ?????? ??????? ?? ??? ??? ?????? ?? ?????? ??
???? ??????? ????? ??????? ?????? ?? ????? )1( ?? ??? ??????.

??? ????? )1( ?? ?????? )24( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ??? ???? ??? ??????? ?? ????? ??? ?????? ??? ??????? ???? ???? ???? ?????? ???? ??? ????? ?????? ????????? ???? ?? ????? ??????? ???? ????? ????? ???? ??????? ???????? ????
?????? ???????.

??? ????? )2( ?? ?????? )24( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ?? ???? ?????? ???? ??? ??????? ?? ????? ???? ?? ???? ????? ???  ????  ????  ?????  ?????  ???????  ???????  ?????? ???
???????? ?????? ???? ??? ????? ??? ???? ????? ???????.





??? ????? )3( ?? ?????? )24( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ???








.25











.26














.27

a reconciliation application shall be submitted by the

??  ????  ???  ???????  ??  ??????  ??  ???????  ?????  ????

accused or convicted person, as the case may be, at any stage of the criminal case to the competent federal public prosecution.
28. Article 24(5) of the New Executive Regulation states that the public prosecution shall issue record of reconciliation after the settlement of full tax and administrative penalties payable and the additional consideration for reconciliation. Such record shall be signed by both the competent public prosecution member and the accused or convicted person, and shall be approved by the federal attorney general. The record must include the following:

???????? ?? ?? ????? ?? ????? ?????? ???????? ??? ???????
?????? ????????? ???????.

????? ????? )5( ?? ?????? )24( ?? ??????? ????????? ???????? ???? ???????   ??????   ??????  ????????  ???   ????   ????   ???????
?????????  ????????  ??????  ?????  ????????  ???????  ???????? ?????  ????  ????  ??  ???  ???????  ??????  ??????  ???????  ?? ??????? ????? ?????? ?? ?????? ????? ???????? ???? ?? ?????
?????? ?? ????:







.28

a. The details of the accused or the convicted person.
b. A description of the charges attributed to the accused or convicted person, the date and place of their occurrence and the articles of law applicable thereto.
c. The value of the tax and administrative penalties payable.
                
?.     ?????? ?????? ?? ??????? ????.   ????? ????? ???????? ?????? ?? ??????? ???? ?????? ????? ?.
?????? ????? ??????? ???????? ?????.

?.    ????? ??????? ????????? ???????? ?????? ?????.

d. The percentage and value of the additional amount for reconciliation.

?.    ???? ???? ?????? ??????? ??????? ???????.



Evidence of settlement of the aforementioned amounts must be attached to the record. In the event that the administrative penalties are paid in instalments or waived in accordance with Article 50 of the Decree-Law, or if the payment of the additional consideration for reconciliation is deferred or paid in instalments in accordance with Clause 9 of this Article, a payment plan shall be attached to the record showing the deferred or installed payment, as applicable. The FTA and the competent court shall be notified of the approved reconciliation record, as applicable.
29. Article 25(1) of the New Executive Regulation states the FTA may extend the deadline for deciding on a tax assessment review request and a request for reconsideration, which fulfil the formalities, for a period of (20) twenty business days if the extension is necessary to decide on the request.
30. Article 25(2) of the New Executive Regulation states that the Committee may extend the deadline for deciding on a tax objection, which fulfils the formalities, for a period of
(60) sixty business days if the extension is necessary to decide on the objection.
31. Article 25(3) of the New Executive Regulation states that the FTA may, at the request of the persons concerned, extend the deadline for accepting the submission of a tax assessment review request or a reconsideration request, in the cases deemed appropriate by the FTA.
32. Article 25(4) of the New Executive Regulation states that the Committee may, upon the request of the persons concerned, extend the deadline for accepting the submission a tax objection if there is a reason beyond their control, sudden accident, emergency circumstances or force majeure that prevented them from submitting the tax objection within the specified deadline.

???? ?? ???? ??????? ?? ???? ???? ??????? ????????? ???
??? ?? ????? ???????? ???????? ?? ??????? ???? ????? ?????? )50( ?? ??????? ??????? ?? ????? ???? ??????? ??????? ??????? ?? ?????? ????? ????? )9( ?? ??? ??????? ???? ??????? ??? ???? ???????  ???????  ??  ???????  ????  ????????  ??????  ??????
???????? ??????? ????? ??????? ??????? ???? ???????.






??? ????? )1( ?? ?????? )25( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ??? ???? ?????? ????? ??? ???? ?? ??? ?????? ??????? ???????
????  ?????  ??????  ????????  ??????  ????????  ????  )20(
????? ??? ??? ??? ??? ??????? ??????? ???? ?? ?????.


??? ????? )2( ?? ?????? )25( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ???  ?????  ?????  ???  ????  ??  ????????  ????????  ???????? ??????  ????????  ????  )60(  ????  ???  ???  ???  ???  ???????
??????? ???? ?? ????????.

??? ????? )3( ?? ?????? )25( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ??? ???? ??????? ??? ?? ??? ??? ??? ?????? ????? ??? ???? ????? ??? ?????? ??????? ??????? ?? ??? ????? ?????? ?? ???????
???? ?????? ??????.

??? ????? )4( ?? ?????? )25( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ??? ???? ?????? ??? ?? ??? ??? ??? ?????? ????? ??? ???? ????? ???????? ??????? ??? ??? ??? ?? ?? ?? ??? ?? ???? ????? ??  ????  ?????  ??  ???  ?????  ????  ???  ??????  ???  ??????
????????? ??????? ??? ???????? ???????.
























.29










.30








.31








.32

33. Article 27(3) of the New Executive Regulation states that the FTA shall notify the appointed bankruptcy trustee of the amount of the due tax and of its intention to perform a tax audit for specific tax period(s), within (20) twenty business days after being notified of the trustee's appointment under Clause 2 of this Article.
34.    Article 30(3) of the New Executive Regulation states that

??? ????? )3( ?? ?????? )27( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ??? ????? ??? ?????? ????? ???? ???????? ?????? ?????? ??????? ???????? ?? ??????? ?????? ??????? ??????? ??? ???? ?? ????? ????? ?????? ???? )20( ????? ??? ??? ?? ????? ?????
?????? ?????? ???? ???????? ??? ????? )2( ?? ??? ??????.

??? ????? )3( ?? ?????? )30( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ???


.33










.34

Decisions issued by the FTA and procedures applied by it for the implementation of the Cabinet Decision No. 36 of 2017 on the Executive Regulation of Federal Law No. 7 of 2017 on Tax Procedures and its amendments shall remain in force, insofar as they do not contradict with the provisions of the New Executive Regulation until the issuance of decisions and procedures replacing them in accordance with the provisions of the New Executive Regulation.

??  ?????  ?????  ?????????  ???????  ??  ??????  ?????????? ???????  ??  ?????  ??????? ?????  ????  ???????  ???  )36(  ???? 2017 ?? ??? ??????? ????????? ??????? ???????? ??? )7( ???? 2017 ???? ????????? ????????? ?????????? ??? ???? ???? ?? ?????? ?? ????? ??????? ????????? ???????? ???? ??? ??? ???? ??????  ????????  ???  ?????  ?????  ??????  ???????  ?????????
???????.

35.  Article 31 of the New Executive Regulation states that:

??? ?????? )31( ?? ??????? ????????? ??????? ??? ???:

.35

1. The New Executive Regulation shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into effect as of 1 August 2023.
2. As an exception to Clause 1 of this Article, Clause 2 of Article 12 of the New Executive Regulation shall come into effect as of 1 December 2023.

.1    ????? ???? ??????? ????????? ???????  ?? ??????? ????????
?????? ?? ???????? ?? 1 ????? .2023

   ?????? ?? ?? ????? )1( ?? ??? ??????? ????? ?????? )2( ?? ??????  )12(  ??  ???????  ?????????  ???????  ??  1  ?????? .2
.2023

	














Transfer Pricing Guide
Corporate Tax Guide | CTGTP1

October 2023


Contents
1. Glossary	4
1.1. Definitions	4
1.2. Acronyms and Abbreviations	10
2. Introduction	11
2.1. Overview	11
2.2. Purpose of this guide	11
2.3. Who should read this guide?	11
2.4. How to use this guide	11
2.5. Legislative references	12
2.6. Status of this guide	12
3. Transfer Pricing at a glance	14
4. Transfer Pricing Principles and Fundamentals	16
4.1. Overview	16
4.2. What is Transfer Pricing	16
4.3. The Arm's Length Principle	16
4.4. Scope of the Transfer Pricing rules	19
4.4.1. Related Parties and Connected Persons	19
4.4.2. Controlled Transactions	25
5. Application of the Arm's Length Principle	26
5.1. Step 1: Identify Related Parties, Connected Persons, relevant transactions and arrangements and perform comparability analysis accordingly	26
5.1.1. Identification of the commercial and financial relations	27
5.1.2. Other considerations	45
5.2. Step 2: Selection of the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method	46
5.2.1. Transfer Pricing methods	46
5.2.2. Selection of the most appropriate method	68
5.2.3. Using a combination of Transfer Pricing methods	68
5.3. Step 3: Determination of the Arm's Length Price	69
5.3.1. Choice of the tested party	69
5.3.2. Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions	69
5.3.3. Comparability adjustments	73
5.3.4. Determining the arm's length range	73

5.3.5. Other considerations	77
6. Transfer Pricing Documentation	79
6.1. Introduction	79
6.2. Objectives of Transfer Pricing documentation	80
6.3. Contemporaneous Transfer Pricing documentation	80
6.4. Summary of the UAE Transfer Pricing documentation requirements	81
6.5. General Transfer Pricing disclosure form	81
6.6. Master File and Local File	82
6.6.1. Master File	82
6.6.2. Local File	84
6.6.3. Exceptions on maintenance of a Master File and a Local File	87
6.7. Country-by-Country Reporting (CbCR)	88
7. Special Considerations for Specific Cases	90
7.1. Financial transactions	90
7.1.1. Introduction	90
7.1.2. Treasury function	90
7.1.3. Intra-group loans	91
7.1.4. Cash Pooling	96
7.1.5. Hedging	97
7.1.6. Financial guarantees	98
7.1.7. Captive insurance	99
7.2. Intra-group services	100
7.2.1. Introduction	100
7.2.2. Determining whether an intra-group service has been rendered	100
7.2.3. Determining the arm's length charge for intra-group services	107
7.2.4. Documentation	110
7.3. Intangibles	111
7.3.1. Introduction	111
7.3.2. Identifying intangibles (Types of intangibles)	111
7.3.3. Applying the Arm's Length Principle with respect to intangibles	112
7.4. Cost Contribution Arrangements	118
7.4.1. Introduction	118
7.4.2. Types of Cost Contribution Arrangements	118
7.4.3. Applying the Arm's Length Principle to a Cost Contribution Arrangement	119
7.4.4. CCA entry, withdrawal and termination	121

7.4.5. Balancing payments	122
7.5. Business Restructuring	123
7.5.1. Introduction	123
7.5.2. Arm's Length compensation for the restructuring itself	124
7.5.3. Other considerations	126
7.6. Permanent Establishment	128
7.6.1. Introduction	128
7.6.2. The separate entity approach	129
7.7. Group synergies	131
7.8. Other cases	133
7.8.1. Reliance on arm's length standard carried out by members of MNE Group . 133
7.8.2. Cash/bank settlement between Related Parties and Connected Persons	134
8. Transfer Pricing audit and risk assessment	136
8.1. Burden of Proof	136
8.2. Transfer Pricing adjustments	136
8.3. Non-recognition	138
9. Updates and Amendments	139

1. Glossary

1.1. Definitions

Arm's Length Price: The price determined for a specific business transaction in accordance with the Arm's Length Principle.

Arm's Length Principle: The international standard that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) member countries and many other jurisdictions have agreed to use for determining transfer prices for tax purposes. The principle is set forth in Article 9 of the OECD Model Tax Convention as follows: where conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly. (OECD, 2017)

Business: Any activity conducted regularly, on an ongoing and independent basis by any Person and in any location, such as industrial, commercial, agricultural, vocational, professional, service or excavation activities or any other activity related to the use of tangible or intangible properties.

Business Activity: Any transaction or activity, or series of transactions or series of activities conducted by a Person in the course of its Business.

Business Restructuring: A cross-border or domestic reorganisation of the commercial or financial relations between Related Parties or Connected Persons, including the termination or substantial renegotiation of existing arrangements.

Comparable Uncontrolled Price Method: A Transfer Pricing method that compares the price for property or services transferred in a Controlled Transaction to the price charged for property or services transferred in a Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction in comparable circumstances.

Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction: A transaction between two independent parties that is comparable to the transaction under examination ("Controlled Transaction"). It can be either a comparable transaction between one party to the Controlled Transaction and an independent party ("internal comparable") or between two independent parties, neither of which is a party to the Controlled Transaction ("external comparable").

Connected Person: Any Person affiliated with a Taxable Person as determined in Clause 2 of Article 36 of the Corporate Tax Law.



Consolidated Financial Statements: The financial statements of the MNE Group in which the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and cash flows of the Ultimate Parent Entity and Constituent Entities are presented as those of a single economic entity.

Constituent Company: Means under Article 1 of the Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 any of the following:
1. Any separate business unit of an MNE Group that is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of the MNE Group for the purposes of preparing the financial reports, or would be so included therein if equity interests therein were traded on a public securities exchange;
2. Any business unit that is excluded from the MNE Group's Consolidated Financial Statements solely on size or materiality grounds;
3. Any permanent establishment pertaining to any separate business unit of the MNE Group referred to in Clauses (1) or (2) above, provided that the said business unit prepares separate financial statements for such permanent establishment for the purposes of financial reporting preparation, regulatory, tax reporting, or internal management control purposes.

Control: The direction and influence over one Person by another Person in accordance with Clause 2 of Article 35 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Controlled Transactions: Transactions or arrangements between two parties that are Related Parties or Connected Persons.

Corporate Tax: The tax regime imposed by the Corporate Tax Law on juridical persons and Business income.

Corporate Tax Law: Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses.

Cost Plus Method: A Transfer Pricing method using the costs incurred by the supplier of goods (or services) in a Controlled Transaction. An appropriate cost-plus mark-up is added to this cost, to make an appropriate profit in light of the functions performed (taking into account assets used and risks assumed) and the market conditions. The amount after adding the cost-plus mark-up to the above costs may be regarded as an Arm's Length Price of the original Controlled Transaction.

Country-by-Country Report: A report that declares annually the details of each tax jurisdiction in which a Multinational Enterprise Group ("MNE") does business. This includes the amount of revenue, profit before income tax and income tax paid and accrued. It also requires MNEs to report their number of employees, stated capital, retained earnings and tangible assets in each tax jurisdiction. Finally, it requires MNEs


to identify each entity within the group doing business in a particular tax jurisdiction and to provide an indication of the business activities each entity engages in.

Country-by-Country Reporting: An obligation to submit a Country-by-Country Report as introduced by Action 13 of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting ("BEPS") initiative led by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD") and the Group of Twenty ("G20") industrialised nations. This is enforced in the UAE via Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 on Organising Reports submitted by Multinational Companies.

Double Taxation Agreement: An international agreement signed by two or more countries for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion on income and capital.

Exempt Person: A Person exempt from Corporate Tax under Article 4 of the Corporate Tax Law.

Fiscal Year: The annual accounting period in respect to which the Reporting Entity prepares the financial statements.

Free Zone: A designated and defined geographic area within the UAE that is specified in a decision issued by the Cabinet at the suggestion of the Minister.

Free Zone Person: A juridical person incorporated, established or otherwise registered in a Free Zone, including a branch of a Non-Resident Person registered in a Free Zone.

Federal Tax Authority: The authority in charge of administration, collection and enforcement of federal taxes in the UAE.

Functional Analysis: The analysis aimed at identifying the economically significant activities and responsibilities undertaken, assets used or contributed, and risks assumed by the parties to the transactions.

Group: Two or more companies related through ownership or control in accordance with Article 1 of the Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020, such that it either is required to prepare Consolidated Financial Statements for the purposes of preparing financial reports under the applicable accounting principles or would be so required if the equity interests in any of the companies were traded on a public securities exchange.

Guide: Refers to the present Transfer Pricing Guide published by the FTA.


Local File: A Transfer Pricing documentation which contains detailed information on all Controlled Transactions of the Taxable Person and other information about the Business of the Taxable Person.

Market Value: The price which could be agreed in an arm's-length free market transaction between Persons who are not Related Parties or Connected Persons in similar circumstances.

Master File: A Transfer Pricing documentation which provides an overview of the MNE Group Business, including the nature of its global Business operations, its overall Transfer Pricing policies, and its global allocation of income and economic activity in order to assist tax administrations in evaluating the presence of significant Transfer Pricing risk.

Minister: Minister of Finance.

MNE Group: Any Group that meets the criteria prescribed in Article 1 of Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020:
1. Two or more companies the tax residence of which is located in different jurisdictions, or including one single company having its tax residence in one country and being subject to tax with respect to the activity it carries out through a permanent entity located in another country; and
2. Which has a total consolidated Group revenue that is equal to or more than AED 3,150,000,000 (UAE Dirham Three Billion One Hundred and Fifty Million) during the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the reporting Fiscal Year as indicated in its Consolidated Financial Statements for that preceding Fiscal Year.

OECD Model Convention: The 2017 version of the OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and Capital.

Natural Person: Individual human being (distinct from a juridical person).

Non-Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines: The 2022 version of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations.

Person: Any Natural Person or Juridical Person.

Profit Split Method: A Transfer Pricing method that identifies the relevant profits to be split for the Related Parties or Connected Persons from a Controlled Transaction (or Controlled Transactions that can be aggregated) and then splits those profits


between the Related Parties or Connected Persons on an economically valid basis that approximates the division of profits that would have been agreed at arm's length.

Recognised Stock Exchange: Any stock exchange established in the UAE that is licensed and regulated by the relevant competent authority, or any stock exchange established outside the UAE of equal standing.

Related Party: Any Person associated with a Taxable Person as determined in Article 35(1) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Reporting Entity: The Ultimate Parent Entity of an MNE Group in accordance with Article 1 of the Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 whose tax residence is located in the UAE and is required to submit a Country-by-Country Report on behalf of the MNE Group.

Resale Price Margin: The margin representing the amount out of which a reseller would seek to cover its selling and other operating expenses and, in the light of the functions performed (taking into account assets used and risks assumed), make an appropriate profit.

Resale Price Method: A Transfer Pricing method based on the price at which a product that has been purchased from a Related Party is resold to an Independent Party. The resale price is reduced by the Resale Price Margin. What is left after subtracting the Resale Price Margin can be regarded, after adjustment for other costs associated with the purchase of the product (for example, custom duties), as an Arm's Length Price of the original transfer of property between the Related Parties or Connected Persons.

Resident Person: The Taxable Person specified in Article 11(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

Tax Period: The period for which a Tax Return is required to be filed.

Tax Return: Information filed with the FTA for Corporate Tax purposes in the form and manner as prescribed by the FTA, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and any amendment thereof.

Taxable Income: The income that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.

Taxable Person: A Person that is subject to Corporate Tax under the Corporate Tax Law.


Transactional Net Margin Method: A Transfer Pricing method that examines the net profit margin relative to an appropriate base (for example, costs, sales, assets) that a Taxable Person realises from a Controlled Transaction (or transactions that are appropriate to be aggregated).

Transfer Pricing: Rules on setting of arm's length prices for Controlled Transactions, including but not limited to the provision or receipt of goods, services, loans and intangibles.

Ultimate Parent Entity: The Constituent Company in the MNE Group that meets the following criteria stated in Article 1 of the Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020:
1. Owns directly or indirectly a sufficient interest in one or more Constituent Companies of such MNE Group as is required to prepare Consolidated Financial Statements under the accounting principles generally applicable in its jurisdiction tax residence, or be so required if its equity interests were traded on a public securities exchange in its jurisdiction tax residence; and
2. Its Group does not include any other Constituent Company that owns directly or indirectly an interest described in Clause (1) above in such entity.


1.2. Acronyms and Abbreviations AED: United Arab Emirates Dirham BEPS: Base Erosion and Profit Shifting CbCR: Country-by-Country Reporting CCA: Cost Contribution Arrangement CPM: Cost Plus Method
CUP: Comparable Uncontrolled Price

DEMPE: Development, Enhancement, Maintenance, Protection and Exploitation

DTA: Double Taxation Agreement

FTA: Federal Tax Authority

MNE: Multinational Enterprise

OECD: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development

PE: Permanent Establishment PSM: Profit Split Method RPM: Resale Price Method
R&D: Research and Development TNMM: Transactional Net Margin Method TP: Transfer Pricing
UAE: United Arab Emirates


2. Introduction

2.1. Overview

Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses ("Corporate Tax Law") was issued on 3 October 2022 and was published in Issue #737 of the Official Gazette of the United Arab Emirates ("UAE") on 10 October 2022.

The Corporate Tax Law provides the legislative basis for imposing a federal tax on corporations and Business profits ("Corporate Tax") in the UAE.

The provisions of the Corporate Tax Law shall apply to Tax Periods commencing on or after 1 June 2023.

2.2. Purpose of this guide

This guide is designed to provide general guidance on the Transfer Pricing regime in the UAE with a view to making the provisions of the Transfer Pricing regulations as understandable as possible to readers. It provides readers with:
- an overview of the Transfer Pricing rules and procedures, including the determination of the Related Party transactions, whether transactions are done on an Arm's Length basis, and other related compliance requirements including Transfer Pricing documentation; and
- assistance with the most common questions businesses might have to reduce uncertainties for Taxable Persons in relation to the implementation and application of the Transfer Pricing provisions of the Corporate Tax Law.

2.3. Who should read this guide?

This guide should be read by any juridical or natural person who wants to know more about the Transfer Pricing regime in the UAE. It is intended to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and other relevant guidance published by the FTA.

2.4. How to use this guide

The relevant articles of the Corporate Tax Law and the implementing decisions are indicated in each section of the guide.

It is recommended that the guide is read in its entirety to provide a complete understanding of the definitions and interactions of the different rules. Further guidance on some of the areas covered in this guide can be found in other topic- specific guides.


In some instances, simple examples are used to illustrate how key elements of the Transfer Pricing regime applies to juridical and natural persons. The examples in the guide:
- show how these elements operate in isolation and do not show the interactions with other provisions of the Transfer Pricing regime that may occur. They do not, and are not intended to, cover the full facts of the hypothetical scenarios used nor all aspects of the Transfer Pricing regime, and should not be relied upon for legal or tax advice purposes; and
- are only meant for providing the readers with general information on the subject matter of this guide. They are exclusively intended to explain the rules related to the subject matter of this guide and do not relate at all to the tax or legal position of any specific juridical or natural person.

2.5. Legislative references

In this guide, the following legislation will be referred to as follows:
* Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Corporate Tax Law";
* Federal Law No. 5 of 1985 on the Civil Transactions Law of the United Arab Emirates is referred to as "Federal Law No. 5 of 1985".
* Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 on Organising Reports Submitted by Multinational Companies as "Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020"; and
* Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023 on Requirements for Maintaining Transfer Pricing Documentation for the Purposes of Federal Decree-Law No. 47 of 2022 on the Taxation of Corporations and Businesses is referred to as "Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023".1

2.6. Status of this guide

This guidance is not a legally binding document, but is intended to provide assistance in understanding the provisions relating to the Corporate Tax regime in the UAE. The information provided in this guide should not be interpreted as legal or tax advice. It is not meant to be comprehensive and does not provide a definitive answer in every case. It is based on the legislation as it stood when the guide was published. Each person's own specific circumstances should be considered.

The Corporate Tax Law, the implementing decisions and the guidance materials referred to in this document will set out the principles and rules that govern the application of Corporate Tax. Nothing in this publication modifies or is intended to modify the requirements of any legislation.

1 The Master File and Local File requirements, along with the existing Country-by-Country reporting requirements detailed in Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 form the three-tiered approach to Transfer Pricing documentation.



This Guide takes into consideration the guidance provided by the January 2022 OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations ("OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines"). However, Taxable Persons should rely primarily on the Corporate Tax Law, the Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023, and this Guide for Transfer Pricing matters involving the UAE. This Guide should be primary source of guidance for Transfer Pricing related matters prevailing over international standards, however, if a certain aspect is not covered, taxpayers are encouraged to refer to OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines if an issue is not addressed herein. Furthermore, the following reports have been considered:
* OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations of 2022, referred to as "OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines";2
* OECD Transfer Pricing Documentation and Country-by-Country Reporting, Action 13 - 2015 Final Report, OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project, referred to as "BEPS Action 13";
* OECD 2010 report on the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments issued by the OECD for further guidance;3
* OECD Model Tax Convention on Income and Capital of 2017, referred to as "OECD Model Convention";4 and
* OECD 2018 Additional Guidance on the Attribution of Profits to Permanent Establishments.5


The FTA reiterates the need for keeping supporting documentation to justify the application of the chosen Transfer Pricing method or of the relevant rules for the specific taxable person.

This document is subject to change without notice.












2 Available at: https://www.oecd.org/tax/transfer-pricing/oecd-transfer-pricing-guidelines-for- multinational-enterprises-and-tax-administrations-20769717.htm.
3 Available at: https://www.oecd.org/ctp/transfer-pricing/45689524.pdf.
4 	Available	at:	https://www.oecd.org/ctp/treaties/model-tax-convention-on-income-and-on-capital- condensed-version-20745419.htm
5 Available at: https://www.oecd.org/tax/transfer-pricing/additional-guidance-attribution-of-profits-to-
permanent-establishments-BEPS-action-7.pdf


3. Transfer Pricing at a glance

Transfer Pricing refers to the pricing of transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons, and has become increasingly important due to globalisation and cross border trade activities by enterprises. The significance of Transfer Pricing has resulted in the introduction of Transfer Pricing legislation in many countries. Organisations such as the OECD and the United Nations ("UN") have published detailed Transfer Pricing guidelines proposing how to govern transactions between Related Parties from a tax perspective and recommended documentation standards.

Whilst the Transfer Pricing policy of a Group may not have an overall impact on that Group's consolidated profits, the pricing of its Controlled Transactions can lead to the underpayment of tax in one or more jurisdiction. In particular, transactions and arrangements between Group entities can be used to artificially shift profits from Group entities in higher tax jurisdictions to lower tax jurisdictions, and from high-tax entities to low or no-tax entities, resulting in an overall lower tax burden for the Group.

To prevent such price distortions, tax administrations may assess the prices of transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons to verify if the transactions have been priced at Market Value. Tax administrations may perform a Transfer Pricing adjustment if a transaction is not found to be reflective of the Market Value or Arm's Length Price.

Such adjustments can result in double taxation for MNE Groups operating in multiple jurisdictions. However, the Mutual Agreement Procedure ("MAP") article in Double Tax Agreements allows competent authorities in partner jurisdictions to interact with the intent to resolve international tax disputes involving cases of double taxation where the same profits have been taxed in two jurisdictions. The objective of the MAP process is to negotiate an arm's length position that is acceptable to both competent authorities and seek to avoid double taxation. This procedure will be further detailed in separate guidance.

To reduce the risk of audits and double taxation, when transacting with Related Parties or Connected Persons, Taxable Persons should ensure the transfer price between the parties is at arm's length (i.e. as if they were independent parties negotiating freely) and maintain supporting Transfer Pricing documentation.

Transfer Pricing rules in the UAE apply not only to MNE Groups, but also to any transactions and arrangements with Related Parties or Connected Persons in domestic groups. All these transactions need to meet the arm's length principle. In addition, transactions above the materiality threshold to be set through an FTA


Decision 6 will need to be disclosed  for the purposes of Transfer Pricing ("TP") Documentation.

























































6 FTA Decision to be published.


4. Transfer Pricing Principles and Fundamentals

4.1. Overview

The purpose of this section is to introduce the concept of Transfer Pricing as well as clarify the Persons and transactions in scope for the application of the Arm's Length Principle in the UAE.

4.2. What is Transfer Pricing

Transfer Pricing is primarily a tax concept, but which also has important accounting and risk-related implications. It refers to the pricing of transactions or arrangements between Related Parties or Connected Persons that are influenced by the relationship between the transacting parties. Transactions that occur between Related Parties or Connected Persons may include but are not limited to the trade of services, tangible goods, intangibles, financial transactions as well as certain transactions involving a Permanent Establishment (PE).

When independent parties transact with each other, the conditions of their commercial and financial relations (for example, the price of goods transferred, or services provided and the conditions of the transfer or provision) ordinarily are determined by market forces and negotiations. On the other hand, Related Parties or Connected Persons may not be subject to the same external market forces in their dealings and may be influenced by the relationship between the parties involved. As a result, Related Parties or Connected Persons can use non-arm's length pricing in their Controlled Transactions in order to alter the profits reported in the relevant jurisdiction or entity and thus optimise the resulting tax liabilities.

The internationally recognised standard in pricing such transactions is the Arm's Length Principle, which requires that Controlled Transactions be conducted at open market value as would be the case between independent parties.

Given the above, the Transfer Pricing provisions of the Corporate Tax Law and the Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023 were introduced to ensure that the 'Related Parties' and 'Connected Persons' are setting the conditions of their Controlled Transactions in a manner that is similar to those between independent parties in comparable circumstances.

4.3. The Arm's Length Principle

The Arm's Length Principle, as introduced in the UAE under Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law, requires that transactions and arrangements between Related Parties or Connected Persons are priced as if the transactions or arrangements had occurred between independent parties under similar circumstances. It is central to the Arm's


Length Principle to consider what price two independent parties would have agreed in similar circumstances, and that this should be based, wherever possible, on direct or indirect evidence of how independent parties would have behaved.

It is important to note that the absence of a formal pricing arrangement or legal agreement between the transacting Related Parties or Connected Persons does not mean that there is no such arrangement in place. In instances where a transfer of property takes place or a service is provided without a formal arrangement or without remuneration or at remuneration below Market Value, the Arm's Length Principle should always be applied to determine whether such a transaction or arrangement would have taken place between independent parties under similar circumstances and at what value.

The Arm's Length Principle treats Related Parties and Connected Persons, such as for example, members of a Group, as if they were operating as separate entities rather than as inseparable parts of a single unified Business. Since the separate entity approach treats these members as if they were independent parties, attention is focused on the nature of the Controlled Transactions and on whether the conditions differ from the conditions that would be observed in Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions. Such a comparison of the Controlled Transaction(s) with Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions is named as a "comparability analysis" and is at the heart of the application of the Arm's Length Principle (see further in section 5).

In other words, the Corporate Tax Law requires Related Parties or Connected Persons to earn their "fair share" of profits based on the Arm's Length Principle. Thus, after applying the Arm's Length Principle, each Related Party or Connected Person should record operating profits in line with their respective functions, assets, and risks and contributions to the value chain across the Group.

Under the Corporate Tax Law and this Guide, the Arm's Length Principle needs to be applied with respect to domestic as well as cross-border Controlled Transactions.





Production cost
Sale price from Company A to Company B
(related parties)

Market price
Company A (AED)
15,000
15,000
20,000

Company A has made no profit on the sale to Company B, whereas it would have made a profit of AED 5,000 had it sold its timber to a third party, resulting in an overall decrease in profit of AED 5,000 compared to if Company B had paid under an Arm's Length Price transaction.

Company B subsequently sells the goods manufactured using the timber to a third party for AED 30,000. Company B has decreased its cost of sales by AED 5,000 by purchasing at the internal transfer price from Company A as opposed to the market price from a third party. Hence, Company B has increased its profits by AED 5,000.

However, whilst Company A has seen a fall in its profit of AED 5,000 and Company B has seen an increase in its profit of AED 5,000, the overall impact on the Group's earnings is nil, as both transactions occurred within the Group and related party transactions are generally eliminated while preparing consolidated financial statements.


Sale below market price
Sale at market price

Company A
Company B
Company A
Company B
Profit (AED)
0
15,000
5,000
10,000
Tax	rate	in
jurisdiction
9%
5%
9%7
5%
Tax	paid
(AED)
0
750
450
500
Total tax paid
(AED)
750
950

Although the overall profit of the Group company has not changed, the application of Transfer Pricing and the structure of AB Company Group has resulted in total tax paid of AED 750, consisting of 0 AED for Company A and 750 AED for Company B.

Whereas if the transaction was conducted at Market Value, the total tax payable would be AED 950, comprised of AED 450 by Company A and AED 500 by Company B.





7 For the purposes of the example, the headline rate of 9% was applied on the entire Taxable Income.




4.4. Scope of the Transfer Pricing rules

The Transfer Pricing provisions in the UAE apply to transactions or arrangements between Persons who are Related Parties or Connected Persons.

Exempt entities or entities which have elected for the small business relief, as well as standalone entities with no Related Party transactions are subject to Transfer Pricing rules and need to meet the Arm's Length Principle in case of Controlled Transactions but are not required to prepare and keep TP Documentation.

4.4.1. Related Parties and Connected Persons

4.4.1.1. Related Parties

Transfer Pricing rules apply to Related Parties, which are defined under Article 35 of the Corporate Tax Law as any associated Persons, according to a specified degree of association. This association means pre-existing relationship with another Person through kinship (in case of natural persons), ownership or Control, regardless of whether that other Person is resident or not in the UAE.

The criteria for determining association between Related Parties have been categorised and detailed below:

4.4.1.2. Kinship or affiliation

The definition of kinship or affiliation covers the relationship of two or more individuals who are related up to the fourth degree of kinship or affiliation, including by way of adoption of guardianship.

In the context of the UAE8, kinship includes common blood ties as determined by the ancestors or common ancestors of the individual, where an ancestor or common ancestor may include guardians or adoptive parents, and affiliation covers relationship by marriage, or if one natural person's spouse is related by kinship to the other Natural Person.



8 Federal Law No. 5 of 1985 on the Issuance of Civil Transactions Law, and its amendments.


Degrees of kinship or affiliation include:
* The first-degree of kinship and affiliation: a Natural Person's parents and children, as well as the parents and children of their spouse.
* The second-degree of kinship and affiliation: additionally, includes a Natural Person's grandparents, grandchildren, and siblings, as well as the grandparents, grandchildren, and siblings of their spouse.
* The third-degree of kinship and affiliation: additionally, includes a Natural Person's great-grandparents, great-grandchildren, uncles, aunts, nieces and nephews, as well as the great-grandparents, great grandchildren, uncles, aunts, nieces and nephews of their spouse.
* The fourth-degree of kinship and affiliation: additionally, includes a Natural Person's great-great-grandparents, great-great-grandchildren, grand uncle, grand aunt, grandniece, grandnephew and first cousins, as well as the great-great- grandparents, great-great-grandchildren, grand uncle, grand aunt, grandniece, grandnephew and first cousins of their spouse.

4.4.1.3. Ownership

A Natural Person and a juridical person are Related Parties by way of ownership where the individual, or one or more Related Parties of the individual, are shareholders in the juridical person, and the individual, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly owns a 50% or greater ownership interest in the juridical person.

Two or more juridical persons are Related Parties by way of ownership if:
* a juridical person, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly owns a 50% or greater ownership interest in the other juridical person; or
* any Person, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly owns a 50% or greater ownership interest in such two or more juridical persons.
* as per Article 35(1)(b)(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, the Natural Person or one or more Related Parties of the Natural Person are shareholders in the juridical person, and the Natural Person, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly owns a 50% (fifty percent) or greater ownership interest in the juridical person. Likewise, as per Article 35(1)(c)(1); one juridical person, alone or together with its Related Parties, directly or indirectly owns a 50% (fifty percent) or greater ownership interest in the other juridical person.





4.4.1.4. Control

Persons may also be considered as Related Parties through direct or indirect 'Control'. Control is the direction and influence over one Person by another Person and can be determined in several ways including but not limited to instances where:9
* a Person can exercise 50% or more of the voting rights of another Person;
* a Person can determine the composition of 50% or more of the board of directors of another Person;
* a Person can receive 50% or more of the profits of another Person; or
* a Person can determine, or exercise significant influence over, the conduct of the Business and affairs of another Person.

Most of these determinants, in particular the 50% threshold, are indicators of common parent-subsidiary relationships. However, the ability of a Person to exercise 'significant influence' over another Person consists of the exercise of influence and direction on the conduct of a Business and may require consideration of different factors and circumstances that are specific to the scenario being tested.

The following examples illustrate how a Person can have Control by exercising significant influence over the actions of another Person, however, the underlying facts and circumstances need to be considered on a case-by-case basis when determining the existence of Control.










9 Article 35(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Example 3: Significant influence based on debt

Company X is part of an MNE Group headquartered in the UAE. It conducts Business with an independent third-party Company Z and both have developed a strong commercial relationship over the years.

Company Z decides to expand its Business and instead of approaching a bank, it approaches Company X for a loan. Company X agrees to provide a loan.

The Balance Sheet of Company Z before the loan is shown below:


Equity	and
liabilities	(i.e. capital)
Amount in AED million
Assets
Amount in AED million
Share capital
100
Fixed Assets
70
Liabilities

Cash	and	cash
equivalent
30
Total capital
100
Total
100

The Balance Sheet of Company Z after the loan is shown below:


Equity liabilities
capital)
and (i.e.
Amount in AED million
Assets
Amount in AED million
Share capital
100
Fixed Assets
140
Loan
Company X
from
100
Cash	and
equivalent
cash
60
Total capital
200
Total assets
200

In the above case, the loan from Company X constitutes 50% of the total capital of Company Z. It was also noted that after receiving this loan, Company Z registered an increase in its fixed assets and cash. A further fact-finding exercise suggests that Company X (by virtue of the loan) has started exercising significant influence over Company Z through the development of business strategy, design product portfolio and pricing, determining target customer base, and other activities, which are core to Company Z's Business.

Based on the facts, it can be reasonably established that Company X is able to exercise significant influence and as a result both Company X and Company Z can be regarded as Related Parties.





4.4.1.5. Related Parties - additional criteria

"Related party" also means any of the following ties:
* a Person and its Permanent Establishment ("PE") or Foreign PE,10 meaning that Transfer Pricing rules apply to transactions between a Person and their PE or Foreign PE;
* two or more Persons that are partners in the same Unincorporated Partnership; and
* a Person who is the trustee, founder, settlor or beneficiary of a trust or foundation and the trust or foundation, including the trust's or foundation's Related Parties.

10 A permanent establishment has the meaning referenced in Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law.



4.4.1.6. Connected Persons

Where a Person is considered to be a Connected Person of a Taxable Person, all payments or benefits provided by the Taxable Person to the Connected Person are deductible for Corporate Tax purposes only to the extent that they correspond to the Arm's Length Price of the service or benefit provided and they are incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the Taxable Person's Business.

A Person is considered a Connected Person of a Taxable Person if that Person is:11
* an individual, who directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest in the Taxable Person or Controls such Taxable Person, or a Related Party of such individual;
* a director or officer of the Taxable Person, or a Related Party of the said director or officer; or
* a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership, and any Related Parties of such partner.

Article 36(6) of the Corporate Tax Law specifies the categories of Taxable Persons where the deduction of payments or benefits provided to their Connected Persons is not restricted to the Arm's Length Price. These Taxable Persons would include any of the following:
* a Taxable Person whose shares are traded on a recognised stock exchange;
* a Taxable Person that is subject to the regulatory oversight of a competent authority in the UAE; and
* any other Person as may be determined in a decision to be issued by the Cabinet.

4.4.1.7. International agreements for the avoidance of double taxation

The domestic legislative basis for Transfer Pricing in the UAE can be found under Articles 34 to 36 of the Corporate Tax Law. In addition, the UAE also has a well- established double taxation agreement network.

Under the terms of certain agreements entered by the UAE for the avoidance of double taxation, reference is made to "Associated Enterprises". The OECD Model Convention defines the term and sets out the conditions that should be observed in transactions that include these "Associated Enterprises". 12 In particular, the OECD Model Convention states that the transactions between those parties are to be conducted in a manner that is similar to those that would occur amongst independent parties in comparable circumstances.




11 Article 36(2) of the Corporate Tax Law.
12 For example, in Article 9 of the OECD Model Convention.


In the event of differences between the UAE Transfer Pricing regulations and an international agreement in force in the UAE, the provisions of the international agreement will prevail.

4.4.2. Controlled Transactions

A "Controlled Transaction" is a transaction or arrangement between Related Parties or Connected Persons. Controlled Transactions generally include the supply or transfer of tangible goods, provision and receipt of services, funding and other financial transactions, and commercial exploitation of intangible assets such as patents, brands and know-how.

For the purposes of the UAE Transfer Pricing rules, all cross border Controlled Transactions (i.e. transactions between the Person and its Related Parties or Connected Persons that are located in different tax jurisdictions) as well as domestic Controlled Transactions (i.e. transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons located in the UAE, including transactions undertaken between Free Zone Persons) must follow the Arm's Length Principle.


5. Application of the Arm's Length Principle

This section provides guidance on the three key steps in applying the Arm's Length Principle for Controlled Transactions:

Step 1: Identify Related Parties, Connected Persons, relevant transactions and arrangements and perform a comparability analysis accordingly.

Step 2: Selection of the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method.

Step 3: Determination of the Arm's Length Price

5.1. Step 1: Identify Related Parties, Connected Persons, relevant transactions and arrangements and perform a comparability analysis accordingly

As stated in Section 3, a comparability analysis is at the heart of the application of the Arm's Length Principle, which is based on a comparison of the conditions in a Controlled Transaction with the conditions that would have been met had the parties been independent and undertaking a comparable transaction under comparable circumstances.

A comparability analysis refers to the comparison of a Controlled Transaction with Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction(s). A Controlled Transaction and uncontrolled transactions are comparable if none of the differences between the transactions could materially affect the factor being examined in the methodology (for example price or margin), or if reasonably accurate adjustments can eliminate the material effects of any such differences.

A comparability analysis includes two key aspects:
a. Identifying the Related Parties, Connected Persons, commercial or financial relations between the Related Parties or Connected Persons and the conditions and economically relevant circumstances attaching to those relations in order that the Controlled Transaction is accurately delineated.
b. Comparing the conditions and the economically relevant circumstances of the Controlled Transaction as accurately delineated with the conditions and the economically relevant circumstances of Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions.

"Accurate delineation" refers to the recognition of the actual Controlled Transaction based on actual conduct over contractual form by analysing the functions performed, risks assumed and assets used by each party to the transaction.


This section provides guidance on identifying the commercial or financial relations between Related Parties or Connected Persons and on accurately delineating the Controlled Transaction.

5.1.1. Identification of the commercial and financial relations

The application of the Arm's Length Principle depends on identifying the conditions that independent parties would have agreed to in Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions. The economically relevant characteristics and circumstances can impact the conditions of a transaction between independent parties. Therefore, it is also important to identify and consider the economically relevant characteristics of the conditions of the Controlled Transaction and the circumstances in which the Controlled Transaction takes place.

In order to understand these economically relevant characteristics, it is important to identify the commercial and financial relations between the Related Parties or Connected Persons. The typical process of identifying these relations and the related conditions and circumstances generally requires the following:
1. Conducting a broad-based analysis of the industry sector (for example, mining, pharmaceutical, luxury or fast-moving consumer goods) in which the Group operates and other factors affecting performance of any businesses operating in that sector, for example, competition, economic and regulatory factors.
2. Along with gaining an understanding of the relevant industry, it is important to have a clear overview of the Group and how the Group responds to the factors affecting performance in the industry (including its business strategies, markets, products, its supply chain, and the key functions performed, material assets used, and important risks assumed).
3. Analysing what each Related Party does and their commercial or financial relations as expressed in the transactions between them.
4. Accurately delineating the actual transaction(s) between the Related Parties or Connected Persons through an analysis of the economically relevant characteristics (i.e. comparability factors) of the transaction. This will be essential in order to choose and apply the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method, in line with Article 34(5) of the Corporate Tax Law.

The economically relevant characteristics or the comparability factors are used in two phases of a Transfer Pricing analysis.

The first phase relates to the process of accurately characterising the Controlled Transaction by performing a comparability analysis, which involves establishing its terms, functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed by the Related Parties or Connected Persons, the nature of the products transferred or services provided, and the circumstances of the Related Parties or Connected Persons. The economic relevance of the comparability factors depends on the extent to which these


characteristics would be taken into account by independent parties when evaluating the terms of the same transaction were it to occur between them.

Independent parties, when evaluating the terms of a potential transaction, will compare the transaction to the other options realistically available to them, and they will only enter into the transaction if they see no alternative that offers a more attractive opportunity to meet their commercial objectives. In other words, independent parties would only enter into a transaction if it is not expected to make them worse off than their next best option. For example, one party is unlikely to accept a price offered for its product by an independent party if it knows that other potential customers are willing to pay more under similar conditions or are willing to pay the same under more beneficial conditions. In making such an assessment, it may be necessary or useful to assess the transaction in a broader context, since assessment of the options realistically available to third parties is not necessarily limited to a single transaction but may take into account a broader arrangement of economically-related transactions.

The second phase relates to the process for the comparability analysis (set out in Section 5.3) on the comparison analysis between the Controlled Transactions and uncontrolled transactions to aid in determining an Arm's Length Price for the Controlled Transaction. During the selection of comparables, differences in economically relevant characteristics between the controlled and uncontrolled transactions need to be taken into account when establishing whether there is comparability between the situations being compared and what adjustments may be necessary to achieve comparability. These could be, for instance, unexpected situations such as the COVID-19 pandemic, Market Value fluctuations due to inflation or specificities due to a Related Party (newly established or loss-making due to specific circumstances).

After identifying the relevant commercial and financial relations, the comparability factors are analysed in detail below.

5.1.1.1. Contractual terms of the transaction

A transaction or arrangement is the expression of the commercial or financial relations between parties. Independent parties generally formalise transactions through written contracts which reflect the intention of the parties at the time the contract was concluded. Contracts typically include a description of responsibilities of the parties, its obligations and rights, assumption of identified risks, the pricing arrangements as well as terms and conditions associated with the goods or services covered.

When a Controlled Transaction has been formalised by Related Parties or Connected Persons through written contractual agreements, the agreement provides a starting point for delineating the transaction and determining how the responsibilities, risks,


and anticipated outcomes arising from their interaction were intended to be divided at the time of entering into the contract.

In general, the written contracts alone may not provide all the information necessary to perform a Transfer Pricing analysis, or may not provide information regarding the relevant contractual terms in sufficient detail. In addition, the intention of the parties and key features of the intercompany arrangements may also be found outside of written contracts, for example, in emails, meeting notes, and other written correspondences between the parties. In such cases, the economically relevant characteristics in the other four categories listed above (functions performed, characteristics, economic circumstances and business strategies) will provide an important understanding of the actual conduct of the Related Parties or Connected Persons in relation to the Controlled Transaction under review.

In certain cases, no written contract exists or there may be a conflict between the written contract and actual conduct of the Related Parties or Connected Persons. In such cases, the below needs to be taken into consideration to identify the commercial and the financial relations between Related Parties or Connected Persons:
* Where a transaction has been formalised by Related Parties or Connected Persons in a written contract, the starting point of any analysis should begin with the contract.
* Where the conduct of the Related Parties or Connected Persons is not consistent with the terms of the written contractual agreement, further analysis of the actual conduct should be undertaken. Where there are material differences between the contractual terms and the actual conduct, the actual transaction should be determined based on the actual conduct.
* Where no written contractual agreement exists, the actual transaction is determined from the evidence of actual conduct of the Related Parties or Connected Persons provided by identifying the economically relevant characteristics of the transaction, including what functions are actually performed, what assets are actually used, and what risks are actually assumed by each of the Related Parties or Connected Persons. This analysis is further described in Section 5.1.1.2.

In the event taxpayers decide to maintain written inter-company agreements, they may consider adopting a simplified approach of maintaining them based on certain materiality thresholds, criticality of transactions and arrangements, etc. such that the cost and administrative burden do not outweigh the benefits. Contractual terms that are specifically related to risks are further described under step 2 of the six-step risk framework for analysing the risks in a Controlled Transaction (see Section 5.1.1.2 below).


5.1.1.2. Functional Analysis

In transactions between two independent parties, compensation usually reflects the functions that each enterprise performs, the assets it uses, and the risks it assumes. The same principle needs to be applied to transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons. As such, a comprehensive Functional Analysis of the Controlled Transaction is required as part of a comparability analysis to delineate the transaction and determine comparability between the Controlled Transaction and uncontrolled transactions.

A Functional Analysis seeks to identify the economically significant activities and responsibilities undertaken, assets used or contributed, and risks assumed by the Related Parties or Connected Persons in a Controlled Transaction. The Functional Analysis focuses on the functions performed by the parties and the capabilities they provide to the Controlled Transaction. These functions and capabilities will include operational activities such as procurement, marketing, sales as well as decision- making (for example, business strategy and risks).

The analysis also considers the type of assets,13 as well as the nature of the assets used.14

Further, the Functional Analysis will also consider the material risks assumed by each Related Party. Usually, in an open market, the assumption of increased risk would also be compensated by an increase in the expected return. Similarly, the actual assumption and allocation of risks between two Related Parties or Connected Persons would likely affect the pricing of the transaction, so the comparable transactions would also need to reflect the increased risk.





















13 Such as plant and equipment, valuable intangibles, financial assets, etc.
14 Such as the age, market value, location, property right protections available, etc.


Six-step risk framework

There is a six-step process for analysing the risks in a Controlled Transaction, in order to accurately delineate the actual transaction in respect to those risks. This process is summarised as follows:
















Before detailing this six-step process, the following terms need to be defined and understood:

* Risk management: This refers to the function of assessing and responding to risk associated with a commercial activity. Risk management comprises three elements:
i. the capability to make decisions to take on, lay off, or decline a risk-bearing opportunity, together with the actual performance of that decision-making function,
ii. the capability to make decisions on whether and how to respond to the risks associated with the opportunity, together with the actual performance of that decision-making function, and
iii. the capability to mitigate risk, that is, the capability to take measures that affect risk outcomes, together with the actual performance of such risk mitigation.

* Financial capacity to assume risk: This can be defined as having the capital or funding to take on the risk or to lay off the risk, to pay for the risk mitigation functions and to bear the consequences of the risk if it materializes. Access to funding by the party assuming the risk takes into account the available assets and the options realistically available to access additional liquidity, if needed, to cover the costs anticipated to arise should the risk materialise.

* Control over risk: This involves the first two elements of risk management, that is
(i) the capability to make decisions to take on, lay off, or decline a risk-bearing opportunity, together with the actual performance of that decision-making function, and (ii) the capability to make decisions on whether and how to respond to the risks associated with the opportunity, together with the actual performance of that decision-making function. Therefore, in order to exercise control over a risk, a party requires both capability and functional performance.

The six-step risk framework is further detailed below.

Step 1: Identify economically significant risks with specificity

There are many definitions of risk, but in the Transfer Pricing context it is appropriate to consider risk as the effect of uncertainty on the objectives of the business. In all of a company's operations, in every step taken to exploit opportunities, uncertainty exists, and risk is assumed. A company is likely to direct much attention to identifying uncertainties it encounters, in evaluating whether and how business opportunities should be pursued in view of their inherent risks, and in developing appropriate risk mitigation strategies which are important to shareholders seeking their required rate of return. No profit-seeking business takes on risk associated with commercial opportunities without expecting a positive return. The downside impact of risk occurs


when the anticipated favourable outcomes fail to materialise. For example, a product may fail to attract as much consumer demand as projected in practice.

Risks can be categorised in various ways, but a relevant framework in a Transfer Pricing analysis is to consider the sources of uncertainty. Examples of these risk categories include strategic, operational, financial, transactional or hazard risks.

It is important to ensure that risks are not vaguely described or undifferentiated in the contract or arrangement as this may lead to difficulties in making appropriate allocations of these risks in a Transfer Pricing analysis.

Step 2: Identify the contractual assumption of risk

The identity of the party or parties assuming risks is generally set out in written contracts between the parties to a transaction. A written contract typically sets out an intended assumption of risk by the parties, but some risks may be explicitly assumed. For example, a distributor might contractually assume accounts receivable risk, inventory risk, and credit risks associated with the distributor's sales to unrelated customers. Other risks related to that particular type of transaction might be implicitly assumed. For example, in the case of a contract that guarantees a certain level of remuneration to one of the parties would also implicitly pass on the outcome of some risks to that other party, such as unanticipated profits or losses.

The assumption of risk has a significant effect on determining the Arm's Length Price between Related Parties or Connected Persons, and it should not be concluded that the pricing arrangements adopted in the contractual arrangements alone determine which party assumes risk. The remaining steps of the risk framework focus on determining how the parties actually manage and control risks, which determines the assumption of risks by the parties, and impacting the selection of the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method to be applied in a particular transaction.

Step 3: Functional Analysis in relation to risk

In this step, the focus is on the functions relating to the risk undertaken by the Related Parties or Connected Persons. The analysis provides information about how the Related Parties or Connected Persons operate with respect to the assumption and management of the specific, economically significant risks, and in particular which parties perform control functions and risk mitigation functions, encounter upside or downside consequences of risk outcomes, and have the financial capacity to assume the risk in the context of the Controlled Transaction.


Step 4: Risk analysis

Carrying out steps 1-3 above involves gathering of information relating to the assumption and management of risks in the Controlled Transaction. The next step is to analyse the information collected and to determine whether the contractual assumption of risk is consistent with the actual conduct of the parties and the other facts of the case by evaluating whether:
i. the Related Parties or Connected Persons follow the contractual terms; and
ii. the party assuming risk, as analysed under (i), exercises control over the risk and has the financial capacity to assume the risk.

The significance of step 4 will depend on whether the risk analysis leads to significant findings that have not been identified before. Where a party contractually assuming a risk applies that contractual assumption in its conduct, and also both exercises control over the risk and has the financial capacity to assume the risk, then the next step to consider is step 6 (disregarding step 5 on allocation of risk).

Where differences exist between contractual terms related to risk and the actual conduct of the Related Parties or Connected Persons which are economically significant and would be taken into account by third parties in pricing the transaction, the Related Parties' or Connected Persons' actual conduct should generally be taken as the best evidence concerning the intention of the Related Parties or Connected Persons in relation to the assumption of risk. In such a case, it is necessary to review the allocation of risk (step 5 of this risk framework).

Step 5: Allocation of risk

If it is established that the Related Parties or Connected Persons contractually assuming the risk do not exercise control over it or do not have the financial capacity to assume such risk (under step 4(ii)), then the risk should be allocated to the party exercising control and having the financial capacity to assume it. If multiple Related Parties or Connected Persons are identified as exercising control and having the financial capacity to assume the risk, then the risk should be allocated to the Related Parties or group of Related Parties exercising control over the risk in a predominant manner. When allocating the risk, the other parties performing risk control activities should be remunerated appropriately, considering the importance of the risk control activities performed.

Step 6: Pricing Controlled Transactions considering the consequences of risk allocation

Once the above steps are completed, the Controlled Transaction should then be priced in accordance with the tools and methods set out in the following sections of this Guide and considering the financial and other consequences of risk-assumption,


and the remuneration for risk management. In order to be commercially reasonable, the assumption of a risk should be compensated with an appropriate return, and risk mitigation should be appropriately remunerated. Thus, a Person that both assumes and mitigates a risk will be entitled to greater anticipated remuneration than a Person that only assumes or only mitigates a risk but does not carry both.

Overall, when analysing risks, the FTA expects Persons to observe the following:
1. Conduct a thorough Functional Analysis to determine what risks have been assumed, what functions are performed that relate to or affect the assumption or impact of these risks and which party or parties to the transaction assume these risks. This is important even in cases where the effect of the risks assumed are not apparent in the financial statements as this does not necessarily indicate that the risks do not exist, but rather, it could mean that the risks have been effectively managed.
2. The pricing of the actual transaction should take into account the financial and other consequences of risk assumption, as well as the remuneration for risk management. A Person who assumes a risk is entitled to the upside benefits at the same time it incurs the downside costs.
3. To assume a risk for Transfer Pricing purposes, the Person needs to control and have the financial capacity to assume the risk.

5.1.1.3. Contribution to the value chain

Entities in a Group will generally conduct various activities and collaborate to deliver the relevant product or service to the Group's customers. Some of the activities are more impactful and contribute greater value to the overall profit or success of the business, whereas other activities may be more routine or supportive in nature. As an example, activities that contribute to the intellectual property of a Group and to its value creation will typically be higher value functions than the back-office support functions. The manner in which value is added at each stage in creating a product or service is known as the value chain.

Different industries and business models will have different value chains and key value drivers. As part of the Functional Analysis, it is, therefore, important to understand the relative value and contributions of each Related Party to the overall value chain of a business and the relevant product or service.

The findings of the Functional Analysis define the roles of each Related Party and assign a functional characterisation, ranging from entrepreneurial to low or no-risk entities based on the functions performed, assets employed, and risks assumed by each party.


5.1.1.4. Practical guidance for undertaking a Functional Analysis

Understanding the functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed by the parties to the transaction through a Functional Analysis assists in understanding the contribution of these parties to the value chain and, therefore, in arriving at the appropriate compensation for their activities (see Section 5.3 for further details).

As a practical guide when conducting a Functional Analysis, a functional organisation chart could be prepared for each of the parties involved in the Controlled Transaction. This functional organisation chart should identify the relevant departments and personnel within the organisation together with the functions that they perform. For the personnel, stating the title is not sufficient; information is required on the functions performed (for example, via a job description) and the actual conduct of such personnel, and on how the compensation is structured etc.

A Functional Analysis may begin by undertaking an interview with the relevant departments and personnel, and questionnaires are generally used as an indicative guide to the interviews.

Example 6: Samples of Functional Questionnaires

Table 1 below shows an example of a sample list of questions that may be considered relevant for performing a Functional Analysis for a manufacturing entity. This list is not intended to be exhaustive and should be amended to cover the relevant aspects of the specific industry, characteristics of the Business of the Person, and the nature of the Controlled Transaction being analysed. Further, these types of questions are typically used as an indicative guide to undertaking Functional Analysis interviews, and are generally not followed verbatim during such interviews.

Table 1: Sample Functional Questionnaire - Functions (Manufacturer)


Functions
Questions
Planning
* Who is responsible for preparing and approving budgets?
* Who is responsible for scheduling decisions?
* Do distributors buy all products manufactured?
Manufacturing
* What is the manufacturing process?
* What is being manufactured?
* What equipment is used in the manufacturing process?
Procurement
* Where and how are raw materials purchased?
* What materials or partly finished goods are purchased?
* Who performs the procurement activities? Who approves the vendors?



* What is the procurement process involved?
Sales
* What is the sales process including pre-sales and after sales activities?
* How long is the sales process and how complex or simple is it?
* Which party contracts with, and invoices the customers?
* Which employees determine the projects and set the sales targets? If this is done by multiple employees in the team, please describe the role of each of these employees.
* Which employees negotiate the sales contracts with customers?
* What are the risks related to the demand of the products and which employees manage such risk?
* What is the typical length of customer contracts?
Shipping
* Who pays freight charges for the products?
* Which employee(s) is(are) responsible for negotiating with shippers and selection of shippers?
* Who is responsible for the shipping deadline?
* Who arranges for the shipping of the products?
Quality Control
* What form of quality control is applicable?
* Which	employees	set	the	quality	standards	and procedures?
* Who performs and bears the costs for the quality control?
* How many products are rejected by customers due to the product being considered 'below standard'?
* Which entity bears the loss in relation to defective
products?
Warehousing
* Where and how is stock held?
* Which employee(s) control(s) and manages the levels of inventory?
* How many days of inventory are in general applicable?
* What happens with excess stock and which Person bears the risks relating to excess stock?

In addition to the above functions, businesses may also employ tangible and intangible assets in their activities.

Continuing with the above example, a manufacturing entity may use the following assets that should be evaluated in a Functional Analysis:


Table 2: Sample Functional Questionnaire - Assets (Manufacturer)


Type
Description
Tangible (Routine and non-routine)
* Any heavy machinery or equipment?
* Any plant?
* Any warehouse?
* Any office equipment or computers?
Intangible (Routine and non- routine)
* Any technology?
* Any know-how?
* Any software?

Finally, a manufacturing entity may also assume the following risks which would need to be considered as part of the 6-step risk framework:

Table 3: Sample Functional Questionnaire - Risks (Manufacturer)


Type
Description
Credit Risk
Credit risk can represent the financial loss that would be recognised at the reporting date if counter parties failed completely to meet their contractual payment obligations, for example, bad debt or overdue receivables from the
manufacturer's customers.
Foreign Exchange Risk
Foreign exchange risk occurs when there is a mismatch in the currency of the Controlled Transaction, reporting currency, or currency of significant revenues or expenses, for example, exchange rate movements resulting in material increase in cost of imported raw materials obtained in the
foreign currency.
Market Risk
Market risk relates to market factors that may impact the profits of the business. Market risk may arise due to increased competition and relative pricing pressures of the manufactured product, change in demand patterns and needs of customers for the product manufactured, and the
inability to develop/penetrate a market.
Inventory Risk
Inventory risk relates to the inventory held by a company that becomes	obsolete	or	physically	damaged	before	the
manufactured product is sold.
Product	Liability Risk
Product liability risk is associated with product failures including non-performance to generally accepted or regulatory standards. This could result in product recalls and
possible injuries to end-users.


Below is an example of a high-level Functional Analysis of a manufacturer whose products are distributed by a Related Party. This example is illustrative and simplified (as compared to a full Functional Analysis) in order to highlight the key areas that are important in undertaking such an analysis.

Example 7: Functional Analysis of manufacturing entity Company A

Overview

The Functional Analysis example below focuses on Company A which is a manufacturer of microchips based in country X. Company A operates through a network of subsidiaries in multiple countries, engaged in the global distribution of microchips produced by Company A in country X.

Functions performed

Research and Development

Company A has an R&D department comprised of 50 full time employees, headed by a technical director who reports directly to Company A's board of directors based in country X. The department operates through teams engaged in technical functions related to the development, enhancement and maintenance of the hardware and software aspects of the microchips produced by Company A.

Sourcing

Company A has a procurement department staffed with 50 full time employees who have extensive experience in sourcing raw materials in the technology development industry. Working closely with the finance and legal department at Company A, this team undertakes end-to-end vendor due diligence and onboarding, including functions related to vendor identification, reviews, negotiations, selection and relationship management. In addition, the department manages purchase planning and scheduling, inbound logistics and preliminary quality and specification control in relation to the sourced raw materials.

Manufacturing

Company A owns and operates special purpose manufacturing assets and facilities for production of its branded microchips in country X. The facility is operated by a team of 3 engineers, 7 technicians and 40 assembly staff, led by the company's Director of Engineering. The facility incorporates patented production processes based on in-house designed components, which gives Company A its competitive advantage and differentiates its products in the market. Capacity utilisation and


production planning is managed by Company A's Director of Engineering in alignment with the company's board of directors.

Inventory management

Company A owns and operates a warehouse for storage of raw materials and finished products in country X. Company A has developed inventory management policies implemented at the level of country X, as well as in the overseas territories where the distribution subsidiaries are located. The policy features standard operating procedures for stock management, re-orders, planning and risk management. Company A monitors performance of the distributors in terms of compliance with the inventory management policies. Three employees of Company A are responsible for inventory management.

Quality control

Company A's preliminary controls are undertaken by its procurement team at the point of raw material sourcing. Subsequent controls are integrated into the manufacturing process, with sample tests and technical evaluations of semi-finished and finished products conducted before they are transferred to the packaging lines. Company A's quality control framework also includes reporting standards and procedures which must be completed before batches are shipped out to the distributors. 5 employees of Company A perform the quality control function.

Logistics

Company A enters into long term multi-territory contracts to work with third party transportation and logistics services providers who provide outbound logistics support in transporting the finished goods to the distributors. The selection of other in-country logistics service providers subcontracted by the distributors is subject to review and approval of Company A. Company A also bears insurance costs related to global freight risk. 10 employees of Company A perform the logistics function.

Marketing

Company A's marketing team develops the group marketing strategy and identifies and targets new customers through tailored promotions for each country. Company A has three full time employees in the marketing team. The distributors provide on- ground market intelligence which may inform Company A's product customisations for their respective markets. Local campaigns are run on marketing materials centrally prepared in line with the global brand guidelines set and periodically reviewed by Company A.


Sales and distribution

All of Company A's products are sold through its network of Related Party and third- party distributors in both wholesale and retail channels. Sales are store-led and are also made through third party online marketplaces. 30 individuals employed by Company A are responsible for this function.

Sales projections and targets

Company A develops the global sales strategy, budget and targets, taking into account local market inputs from the distributors who provide information on market developments in their respective territories. Company A may revise the targets during a given period at its discretion. 10 individuals employed by Company A are responsible for this function.

Pricing

Company A is responsible for determining the pricing policy and profit margins at which its products are sold. Pricing is determined based on various market forces, costs incurred and global competitive landscape. Company A also sets the global discount policies and sales promotional offers whereby any local market deviations are subject to approval of the Commercial Director who is employed by Company
A. 3 individuals employed by Company A are responsible for this function.

Working capital financing and management

Company A's finance department manages global cash flow and liquidity positions, determines sources and the nature of external financing. Company A also determines the receivables and collection policies implemented globally, monitors movements in distributors' inventory levels, holding costs and outstanding payables from a liquidity management perspective. 20 individuals employed by Company A are responsible for this function.

Customer relationships

Company A defines the guidelines and policies for key account management globally. Global priority accounts are directly maintained at the level of Company A, with local coordination and assistance provided by the distributors. Company A maintains direct lines of communication with its key accounts. The distributors manage routine customer enquiries and support related issues in line with the guidelines set by Company A. Critical customer concerns are directed upwards to Company A on case-by-case basis. Company A maintains a database of global customer lists.


After sales services

The distributors provide after-sales support services, mostly with regards to registering customer complaints / enquiries, provide support to customers with regard to defective product claims and product recalls. Significant complaints / claims are reported upwards. Company A bears the costs associated with customer claims and returns.

Assets employed

Tangible assets

Company A owns significant manufacturing and storage facilities including its factories, equipment and warehouses. The distributors operate through leasehold properties, utilising routine tangible assets such as office fixtures and related equipment.

Intangible assets

All patents and branding elements used by the group are developed by Company A and registered under the legal name of Company A. The distributors do not own any significant intangible assets.

Risks assumed

Market risk

This relates to the risks of losses arising from movements in the market variables like prices, volatility, increased competition in the marketplace, adverse demand conditions or the inability to develop markets or position products to service targeted customers.

Inventory risk

Inventory risk relates to the losses associated with carrying raw material or finished product inventory. Losses include obsolescence, shrinkage, destruction, or market collapse such that products are only saleable at prices that produce a loss.

R&D risk

This is the risk that the efforts devoted to the innovation, and improvement of its products and processes.




5.1.1.5. Characteristics of property or services

Differences in specific characteristics of property or services often account for the differences in their value in the open market. Comparisons of these features may be useful in delineating the transaction and determining the comparability of Controlled and uncontrolled transactions. Nevertheless, the importance given to this comparability factor depends on the Transfer Pricing method used.

In general, similarity in characteristics of the property or services will matter most when comparing prices of Controlled Transactions and uncontrolled transactions using the Comparable Uncontrolled Price ("CUP") method, which is a traditional transaction Transfer Pricing method and one of the five internationally accepted Transfer Pricing methods (see further in Section 5.2.2) and less when comparing profit margins in other Transfer Pricing methods. This is because profit margins generally correlate more with the functions performed, assets used and risks assumed by the tested party. The tested party is the party chosen in the Controlled transaction to which a Transfer Pricing method is applied in the most reliable manner.

Characteristics of property or services that may be important to consider in a comparability analysis include the following:
* for tangible property, the physical features, quality and reliability, and the availability and volume of supply;


* for provision of services, the nature and extent of the services; and
* for intangible property (for example, patents, trademarks, know how), the type and nature of the intangible property, the duration and degree of protection, and the anticipated benefits from the use of the intangible property.

The fact that the specific characteristics of property or services have a more significant weight when applying some of the Transfer Pricing methods than others does not mean that these characteristics can be ignored when applying methods that measure profit margins, because it may be that product differences entail or reflect different functions performed, assets used and/or risks assumed by the tested party.

5.1.1.6. Economic circumstances

Arm's length prices may vary across different markets even for transactions involving the same property or services. Therefore, to achieve comparability, it is required that the markets in which the independent and Related Parties or Connected Persons operate are comparable and that differences do not have a material effect on price or that appropriate adjustments can be made. As a first step, it is essential to identify relevant markets taking into account available substitute goods or services.

Economic circumstances that may be relevant to determining market comparability include geographic location; the size of the markets; the extent of competition in the markets and the relative competitive positions of the buyers and sellers; the availability of substitute goods and services; and the levels of supply and demand in the market as a whole and within regions.

5.1.1.7. Business strategies

Business strategies outline the actions and decisions a company plans to take to reach its goals and objectives and must be examined when determining comparability for Transfer Pricing purposes. Business strategies take into account many aspects of an enterprise, such as innovation and new product development, degree of diversification, risk aversion, assessment of political changes, input of existing and planned labour laws, duration of arrangements, and other factors bearing upon the daily conduct of business.

Business strategies could also include market penetration schemes. A Person seeking to penetrate a market or increase its market share might temporarily charge a price for its product that is lower than the price charged for otherwise comparable products in the same market. Furthermore, a Person seeking to enter a new market or expand its market share might temporarily incur higher costs and, hence, achieve lower profits levels than other Persons operating in the same market.


An additional consideration is whether there is a plausible expectation that following the business strategy will produce a return sufficient to justify its costs within a period of time that would be acceptable in an arm's length arrangement. It is recognised that a business strategy such as market penetration may fail, and the failure does not in itself allow the strategy to be disregarded for Transfer Pricing purposes. However, if such an expected outcome was implausible at the time of the transaction, or if the business strategy is unsuccessful but nonetheless continues to run beyond what an independent party would expect, the arm's length nature of the business strategy may be questioned.

Following the guidance provided above, the Transfer Pricing analysis will identify the substance of the commercial or financial relations between the Related Parties or Connected Persons, and will accurately delineate the actual transaction by analysing the economically relevant characteristics or comparability factors.

5.1.2. Other considerations

Depending on the facts and circumstances, other factors may also be relevant in a comparability analysis. These factors may include government policies such as subsidies or price interventions, cost savings attributable to operating in a particular market, a unique assembled workforce, the impact of customs valuations, MNE group synergies. The impact of such factors on the price or profit of the Controlled or uncontrolled transaction should also be taken into consideration.

Special considerations should also be made when a Related Party consistently makes losses while the MNE Group as a whole is profitable. Parties to an MNE Group, such as independent parties, can sustain genuine losses, for a range of reasons, such as start-up costs, unfavourable economic conditions, inefficiencies, or other legitimate factors. However, independent parties would not be prepared to tolerate losses that continue indefinitely. An independent party that experiences recurring losses will eventually cease to undertake business on such terms. In contrast, Related Parties or Connected Persons that realise losses may remain in that loss-making business if the business is beneficial to the MNE Group as a whole.

In the case of an entity that is consistently realising losses while the MNE Group as a whole is profitable, the facts around its operations and conduct as well as its Controlled Transactions need to be further analysed to confirm whether the entity is receiving adequate compensation from the MNE Group in relation to the benefits derived from its activities. To confirm this, the FTA expects the Person to submit (when requested) documentation which demonstrates that the losses are not due to the impact of non- arm's length Controlled Transactions.15



15 Article 55(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.


There are many factors which may result in losses. Thus, the FTA may request any additional documentation to understand the circumstances resulting in the losses as it sees fit.

5.2. Step 2: Selection of the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method

5.2.1. Transfer Pricing methods

Transfer Pricing methods are used to establish whether Controlled Transactions are conducted at arm's length. Transfer Pricing methods provide clear guidelines for MNEs and tax authorities in determining the appropriate pricing of Controlled Transactions. These methods apply the findings from the comparability analysis (see Section 5.1) to evaluate the transfer prices or profits of the Related Parties or Connected Persons involved in a Controlled Transaction against the prices or profits of independent parties in Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions.

There are five internationally accepted Transfer Pricing methods detailed in the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and internalised under Article 34(3) of the Corporate Tax Law.

The Comparable Uncontrolled Price (CUP) Method, the Resale price Method ("RPM") and the Cost plus Method ("CPM") are considered traditional transaction methods and regarded as the most direct means of establishing whether conditions in the commercial and financial relations between Related Parties or Connected Persons are at arm's length. This is because any difference in the price of a Controlled Transaction from the price in a Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction can normally be traced directly back to the commercial and financial relations between the parties and the arm's length conditions can be established by directly substituting the price in the Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction for the price of the Controlled Transaction.

The Transactional Net Margin Method ("TNMM") and the Profit Split Method ("PSM") are considered transactional profit methods, which are relevant in cases where each of the parties makes valuable and unique contributions in relation to the Controlled Transaction, or where the parties engage in highly integrated activities, and where there is limited or no publicly available data on third parties. In these situations, where both parties to a transaction contribute with unique and valuable functions, a two-sided method may be more appropriate than a one-sided method.

More details and examples for each method are provided below.


5.2.1.1. The Comparable Uncontrolled Price method

The CUP method compares the price charged for property or services transferred in a Controlled Transaction to the price charged for property or services transferred in a Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction in comparable circumstances. Similar pricing between the Controlled Transaction and uncontrolled transaction(s) would indicate that the Controlled Transaction has taken place at arm's length. On the other hand, if there are material differences in the pricing, this would likely indicate that the price of the Controlled Transaction should be adjusted to align with the price of the uncontrolled transaction between independent parties.

Given that the CUP method involves a comparison of prices charged in Related Party transactions and in comparable third-party transactions, it is typically the most direct way to apply the Arm's Length Principle where such data is available. However, the method is reliant on the comparability of available data relating to comparable transactions to ensure its effectiveness.

There is no absolute hierarchy in relation to applying traditional transaction methods. However, traditional transaction methods are regarded as the most direct way of establishing whether transactions and arrangement between Related Parties and Connected Persons are in accordance with the arm's length standard.

While undertaking comparability analysis of the Controlled Transactions, if it is found that the Comparable Uncontrolled Price ("CUP") method and another Transfer Pricing method can be applied in an equally reliable way, the CUP method should be the preferred Transfer Pricing method for determining the arm's length result.

Where the CUP method is applied, the Controlled Transaction may be compared to an internal or an external Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction, depending on the circumstances:
* Internal CUP: where the Arm's Length Price of a Controlled Transaction is determined by the price of a similar transaction between one of the Related Parties or Connected Persons and a third party(ies).
* External CUP: where the Arm's Length Price of a Controlled Transaction is determined by the price of a similar transaction between two or more third parties.

An uncontrolled transaction is considered comparable to a Controlled Transaction where one of the following conditions is met:
* None of the differences that may exist between the Controlled Transaction and uncontrolled transaction or the parties undertaking those transactions could materially affect the market price of the transaction in the open market; or
* Where such differences exist, reasonably accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate any material effects on the price of the transaction resulting from such differences.



In this sense, a number of factors should be considered when determining the comparability of Controlled and uncontrolled transactions, which may include, but is not limited to:
* the type of good or service being transacted;
* the timing of the transaction; and
* the contractual terms of the transaction.

























Comparability factor
Status
Details


Type of good
Comparable
Company A sold similar armchairs to both
Company B and the unrelated party.
Timing
Comparable
The	Controlled	and	uncontrolled Transactions were undertaken during the
same period.
Contractual Terms
Comparable
The discount policy applies to sales to Related Parties, Connected Persons and
unrelated parties.
Quantity
Uncomparable
Company B's	order	quantity	was
significantly lower and did not qualify for the discount.
Price per unit
Uncomparable
While the discount policy is the same, the price has been impacted by the difference in quantity which determined
the application of the discount.










Details
Company B
Company X
Order quantity (units)
100
1,000
Price per unit
AED 500
AED 450
Comparability adjustment
(Add back discount at 10%)
-
AED 50
Ad*justed price per unit
AED 500
AED 500

As indicated in the earlier example material differences between the Controlled Transactions and the Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions may be addressed through adjustments. However, if a reasonably accurate adjustment cannot be made, the reliability of the CUP method would be reduced, and it might be necessary to select another method instead.

Depending on the facts and circumstances of the Controlled and uncontrolled transactions, certain differences such as geographical market, existence or utilisation of valuable intangibles, functional differences, and significant contractual differences may make it impossible to reliably make sufficient comparability adjustments. In these cases, it would also be appropriate to consider another direct method to price transactions or perform a corroborative analysis based on a distinct transactional method.



Application of the CUP method for commodity transactions

The CUP method is typically the most widely used Transfer Pricing method for establishing the Arm's Length Price for the transfer of commodities between Related Parties or Connected Persons.

The reference to commodities encompasses physical products for which a quoted price is used as a reference by independent parties in the industry to set prices in uncontrolled transactions. The term 'quoted price' refers to the price of the commodity in the relevant period obtained in an international or domestic commodity exchange market. In this context, a quoted price also includes prices obtained from recognised and transparent price reporting or statistical agencies or from governmental price setting agencies. Such indexes are used as a reference by unrelated parties to determine prices in transactions between them.

In applying the CUP method for commodities, the economically relevant characteristics for comparison include, among others, the physical features and quality of the commodity, the contractual terms of the Controlled Transaction, such as volumes traded, period of the arrangements, the timing and terms of delivery, transportation, insurance, and foreign currency terms. For some commodities, certain economically relevant characteristics (for example, prompt delivery) may lead to a premium or a discount in the price applied. Where there are differences between the conditions of the Controlled Transaction and the conditions of the uncontrolled transactions or the conditions determining the quoted price for the commodity that materially affect the price of the commodity transactions being examined, reasonably accurate adjustments should be made for comparability purposes.

Where the quoted price for the commodity is relied upon in determining the Arm's Length Price of a controlled commodity transaction, it is critical to examine the extent to which these quoted prices are commonly used in the ordinary course of business in the industry to agree prices for Uncontrolled Comparable Transactions. Other comparability factors and economically relevant characteristics which may impact the price (including physical features, quality, quantity, timing, shipping terms etc.) should also be considered.

In addition, the market prices agreed to in uncontrolled commodity transactions are typically inextricably linked to the specific time or date of the underlying transactions. Therefore, the specific time and date of the quoted price linked to the transaction is a key factor when analysing the price for commodities in Related Party transactions including when applying the CUP method to price a controlled commodity transaction. The Person should provide reliable evidence that the date and time of the quoted prices relied upon for benchmarking purposes are comparable to the date and time of the Controlled Transaction. Such evidence may include proposals and acceptances,


contracts, data downloads from commodity exchanges or other documents setting out the terms of the arrangements.

5.2.1.2. The Resale Price Method

The RPM is based on the price at which a product, that has been purchased from a Related Party, is resold to an independent party. The resale price would be reduced by the gross "Resale Price Margin", as well as any other costs associated with the transaction, to provide an Arm's Length Price for the original transaction between the Related Parties or Connected Persons. The "Resale Price Margin" represents the amount out of which a reseller would seek to cover its selling and other operating expenses and, in the light of the functions performed (taking into account assets used and risks assumed), to make an appropriate profit.

Typically, the RPM is applied to the reseller involved in the Controlled Transaction to compare the margins of the reseller in the Controlled Transaction to the margins earned in a comparable uncontrolled transaction, where the reseller adds relatively little value to the property being transacted. The more value the reseller adds to the property, the less appropriate it would be to apply the RPM to determine the Arm's Length Price of the transaction. This is especially so where the reseller contributes significantly to creating or maintaining intangible properties, such as trademarks or trade names or other marketing intangibles, in its activities. Thus, when applying the RPM, the tested party would ideally not own valuable intangible property.

Given the above, the RPM is often the most appropriate method where it is applied to distribution and marketing operations.

In applying the RPM, the reseller should select a Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction in which the Resale Price Margin earned by the independent reseller(s) can be reliably identified. The identified margins could serve as a benchmark to determine an arm's length Resale Price Margin in that Controlled Transaction.

Where the RPM is applied as a one-sided method, the Controlled Transaction may be compared to an internal or an external Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction depending on the circumstances:
* Internal comparable: where the arm's length Resale Price Margin of the reseller in the Controlled Transaction is determined by the Resale Price Margin of a similar transaction between the same reseller and an independent party.
* External comparable: where the arm's length Resale Price Margin of a Controlled Transaction is determined by the Resale Price Margin of a similar transaction between two independent parties.


An uncontrolled transaction is comparable to a Controlled Transaction (i.e. it is a Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction) for the purposes of the RPM if one of the two following conditions is met:
* None of the differences that may exist between the controlled and uncontrolled transaction or the parties undertaking those transactions could materially affect the Resale Price Margin in the open market; or
* Where such differences are observed, reasonably accurate adjustments may be made to eliminate any material effects resulting from such differences.

In making comparisons for the purposes of the RPM, generally fewer adjustments are needed to account for differences than under the CUP method, because minor product differences are less likely to have as material an effect on profit margins as they do on price. While less product comparability may be required in using the RPM, it remains the case that closer comparability of products will produce better results.

A Resale Price Margin is more accurate where it is realised within a short time of the reseller's purchase of the goods. The more time that elapses between the original purchase and the resale, the more likely it is that other factors - changes in market, in rates of exchange, in costs etc - will need to be taken into account in any comparison.

Where the reseller is clearly carrying on a substantial commercial activity in addition to the resale activity itself, then a reasonably substantial Resale Price Margin might be expected. The Resale Price Margin should also be expected to vary according to whether the reseller has the exclusive right to resell the goods. Exclusive rights arrangements are found in transactions between independent parties in practice and tend to influence the margin.

Further, when applying the RPM, the following should be considered: Operational comparability
When the Resale Price Margin used is that of an independent party in a comparable transaction, the reliability of the RPM may be affected if there are material differences in the ways the Related Parties or Connected Persons and independent parties carry out their business. Such differences could include those that affect the level of costs taken into account (for example, the differences could include the effect of management efficiency on levels and ranges of inventory maintenance), which may well have an impact on the profitability of an enterprise but may not have an impact on the price it buys and sells its goods and services for on the open market. Thus, material operational differences in the way the business is carried out should be analysed in determining whether an uncontrolled transaction is comparable for the purposes of applying the RPM.


Comparability of functions performed, assets used and risks assumed

The nature of the functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed in any transaction can substantially affect the amount of gross margin earned in that transaction. Accordingly, for the purposes of using the RPM, it is recommended to evaluate the comparability of these factors in both the Controlled Transaction and the selected Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction. If any material differences are noted, necessary adjustments should be made to account for such differences.

The impact of accounting practices

Measurement and recognition of the items that impact the way the Resale Price Margin is calculated may differ from one enterprise to another due to varying accounting practices. For example, while an item of cost may be accounted for as an operating expense in the Controlled Transaction, the same item of cost may be accounted for as cost of sales in the uncontrolled transaction. Where such differences exist, using the Resale Price Margin without making the appropriate adjustments is likely to result in miscalculated profit margins. Necessary adjustments should be made to eliminate the effect of any material accounting practice differences.

Example 10: Application of the RPM

Company A, a Free Zone entity incorporated in the UAE, sells goods to a Related Party based in the UAE mainland, Company B, at a price of AED 450.

An independent entity, Company X, purchases similar goods from third parties for AED 400.

Both Company X and Company B subsequently resold to third party customers at a price of AED 500.

Income	statement
[Extract]
Company B
Company X
Sales Price (AED)
500
500
Purchase Price (AED)
(450)
(400)
Gross Profit (AED)
50
100
Resale Price Margin
10%
20%

Company B's profit on the resale of the goods is AED 50, hence the Resale Price Margin is 10%. Had Company B purchased the goods from a third party, the profit on resale would have been AED 100 and the Resale Price Margin would have been 20%.


In the absence of any differences in the economic conditions of the controlled and independent transactions, the difference in the Resale Price Margin demonstrates that the Controlled Transaction between Company A and Company B did not occur at arm's length.

However, the Functional Analysis of the Controlled Transaction shows that Company A performs additional logistics functions, the costs of which are reflected in the price (AED 450) offered to Company B. Further investigation shows that the third-party supplier does not perform these additional logistics functions. It is also observed that Company X bears logistics costs (AED 50) and records these as operating expenses. As such, comparability adjustments may be introduced as follows:

Income	statement
[Extract]
Company B
Company X
Sales Price (AED)
500
500
Purchase Price (AED)
(450)
(400)
Comparability
adjustment:


logistics cost
-
(50)
Gross Profit (AED)
50
50
Resale Price Margin
10%
10%

The above highlights the importance of focusing on the Functional Analysis under the RPM. In this case, the gross resale margin of 10% is considered to be at arm's length as the difference (i.e. logistics cost) is the economically relevant characteristic impacting the independent transaction price and the Controlled Transaction price and has been adjusted accordingly.

5.2.1.3. The Cost Plus Method

The CPM considers the direct and indirect costs incurred by a supplier in supplying goods or services in a Controlled Transaction and applies an appropriate mark-up to these costs based on the functions performed by the supplier and the profit that would have been earned from an arm's length transaction depending on the market conditions. What is arrived at after adding the cost-plus mark-up to the direct and indirect costs of the supplier is then considered the Arm's Length Price of the original transaction.

The CPM is most useful where semi-finished goods are sold between Related Parties or Connected Persons, where Related Parties or Connected Persons have concluded joint facility agreements or long-term buy-and-supply arrangements, as well as where the Controlled Transaction is the provision of services.



Where the CPM is applied, the Controlled Transaction may be compared to an internal or an external Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction depending on the circumstances:
* Internal comparable: where the cost-plus mark-up of the supplier in the Controlled Transaction is determined by reference to the cost-plus mark-up that the same supplier earns in a similar transaction with an independent party; or
* External comparable: where the cost-plus mark-up of the supplier in the Controlled Transaction is determined by reference to the cost-plus mark-up that would have been earned in comparable transactions between two independent parties.

An uncontrolled transaction can be considered comparable to the Controlled Transaction for the purposes of applying the CPM if one of the following two conditions is met:
* None of the differences that may exist between the Controlled and uncontrolled transaction or the parties undertaking those transactions could materially affect the cost-plus mark-up in the open market; or
* Where such differences are observed, accurate adjustments to eliminate any material effects resulting from such differences were reasonably performed.

When applying the CPM, the following aspects should be considered: Product comparability
As with the RPM, fewer adjustments may be necessary to account for product/service differences under the CPM than under the CUP method.

Comparability of functions performed, assets used and risks assumed

Similar to the RPM, for the purposes of the CPM, all comparability factors should be considered to the extent relevant. When there are differences that materially affect the cost-plus mark-ups earned in the controlled and uncontrolled transactions, reasonably accurate adjustments should be made to account for such differences.

Comparability of cost base

Applying the CPM requires the comparability of both the cost-plus mark-up and cost base in the Controlled Transactions and uncontrolled transactions. If the Controlled and uncontrolled transactions are not comparable in all aspects (including the cost base) and the differences have a material effect on the price or margin, adjustments should be made to eliminate the effects of those differences. Where the independent party adopts a definition of cost base or a method to compute cost that is different from that of the Related Party, the cost base of the independent party should be adjusted accordingly to ensure comparability.



In applying the CPM, direct and indirect costs of producing a good or providing a service are normally used to compute the cost base. Such costs are limited to the costs of the supplier of goods or services and should take into account the supplier's Functional Analysis.

The impact of accounting practices

As applicable for the RPM, a Related Party using the CPM should ensure that the accounting practices followed in both the Controlled Transaction and the selected Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction are consistent. If this is not the case, appropriate adjustments for accounting practice differences in both the Controlled Transaction and the selected Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction may be required.

Example 11: Application of the CPM

Company A and its subsidiary Company B are Related Parties and part of the same MNE Group. Company B manufactures and sells semi-finished goods to Company A.

The direct and indirect product costs per unit incurred by Company B in the production of the semi-finished goods amounts to AED 10,000. Company B sells the goods to Company A for AED 10,500 per unit (i.e. at a cost-plus mark-up of 5%).

Comparable independent manufacturers produce similar products. Based on the comparability analysis undertaken, it is established that the comparable independent manufacturers are earning a cost-plus mark-up ranging from 10% to 16%.

Accordingly, the cost-plus mark-up achieved by Company B of 5% is considered not to be at arm's length as this mark-up falls below the benchmark range of 10% to 16%.

However, further investigation of the independent comparables' operating models indicate that the comparable manufacturers do not incur or record significant freight and insurance costs, whereas, Company B's additional cost per unit is attributable to freight and insurance at AED 800. The foregoing is indicative of circumstances that significantly impact the cost-plus mark-up.

As the impact can be reliably measured and supported with evidence from financial statements, and other sources, as applicable, of Company B, as well as of the independent manufacturers, comparability adjustments may be required as follows:



Company B [P&L extract per unit]
Selling price
10,500
Cost
(10,000)
Comparability adjustment: Add back -
Freight & Insurance costs
800
Gross profit
1,300
Cost-plus mark-up
14%












5.2.1.4. The Transactional Net Margin Method

The TNMM examines the net profit earned from a Controlled Transaction relative to an appropriate base, such as the costs, sales or assets. In this way, the TNMM operates similarly to the CPM and RPM and should be applied in a similar manner.

In applying the TNMM, the net profit margin earned in the Controlled Transaction should be established by reference to the net profit margin earned in internal or external Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions depending on the circumstances:
* Internal comparable: where the net profit margin in the Controlled Transaction is determined by the net profit margin of a similar transaction between one of the Related Parties or Connected Persons and a third party.
* External comparable: where the net profit margin of a Controlled Transaction is determined by the net profit margin of a similar transaction between two third parties.

Additional guidance on the application of the TNMM is provided below.

5.2.1.5. The comparability standard applied to the TNMM

A comparability analysis must be performed in all cases in order to select and apply the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method, including the TNMM.

Net profit indicators are the ratio of net profit to an appropriate base (for example costs, sales, assets) and are less adversely affected by differences in products and functions compared to price and gross margins. However, there are various other factors that can significantly influence net profit indicators because of the potential for variation of


operating expenses across enterprises. These factors include treatment across enterprises of operating expenses and non-operating expenses, capacity utilisation, threat of new entrants, competitive position, management efficiency and individual strategies, threat of substitute products, varying cost structures (as reflected, for example, in the age of plant and equipment), differences in the cost of capital (for example self-financing versus borrowing), and the degree of business experience (for example whether the business is in a start-up phase or is mature).

The above, and other relevant, factors need to be accounted for in order to achieve reliable comparability.

Any differences between Related Parties or Connected Persons and independent parties resulting from the above factors may have material effects on the profitability of transactions and would require reliable and accurate adjustments for the TNMM to produce a reliable measure of arm's length net margins.

5.2.1.6. Profit level indicators

The ratio of net profit and the appropriate base used in the TNMM is commonly known as the net profit indicator or profit level indicator.

In order to apply the TNMM, a net profit indicator should be selected to determine the net profitability of the Controlled Transaction. A net profit indicator expresses profitability in relation to an appropriate base such as:
(i) sales,
(ii) costs or expenses, or
(iii) assets.

Therefore, when applying the TNMM, the net profitability of the Controlled Transaction is compared to the net profitability of the uncontrolled transaction(s), using a net profit indicator.

In addition to being less affected by transactional differences than is the case with CUP method, net profit level indicators may also be more tolerant to some functional differences between the Controlled and uncontrolled transactions than gross profit margins (used in RPM and CPM). Differences in the functions performed between parties are often reflected in variations in operating expenses. Consequently, this may lead to a wide range of gross profit margins but still broadly similar levels of net profit level indicators. In addition, there may be lack of clarity in the public data with respect to the classification of expenses as gross or operating profits may make it difficult to evaluate the comparability of gross margins, while the use of profit level indicators may avoid the problem.


The following non-exhaustive examples of profit level indicators that may be considered when applying the TNMM are:

Net profit indicator
Numerator
Denominator
Operating margin or return
on sales
Operating profit
Sales
Net cost-plus or full cost
mark-up
Operating profit
Total costs
Return on assets or return
on capital employed
Operating profit
Operating assets
Berry ratio
Gross profit
Operating expenses

As a general rule, the denominator of the net margin indicator should be set on an uncontrolled base and should reflect the relevant driver or measure of value creation as it relates to the functions performed by the tested party, taking into account the risks assumed and assets used. For example, sales may be an appropriate base for distribution activities, full costs or operating expenses may be an appropriate base for a service or manufacturing activity, and operating assets may be an appropriate base for capital-intensive activities such as certain manufacturing activities. Other bases can also be appropriate depending on the circumstances of the case.

The selection of the most appropriate profit level indicator depends on the facts and circumstances of the Controlled Transaction and the following factors should be considered:
1. Strengths and weaknesses of the various possible net profit indicators;
2. The appropriateness of the profit level indicator in view of the nature of the Controlled Transaction as determined through a Functional Analysis;
3. The availability of reliable information needed to apply the TNMM based on that indicator; and
4. The degree of comparability between Controlled and uncontrolled transactions, including the reliability of comparability adjustments that may be needed to eliminate differences between them when applying the TNMM based on that indicator.

5.2.1.7. Aggregation of transactions and company-wide analysis using TNMM

Although it is preferred that the TNMM be applied at a transactional level, it may be possible to apply the TNMM on an aggregate basis when the aggregate activities / transactions are sufficiently interlinked from economical or commercial standpoints, for example, when similar sales functions are conducted for products in similar product lines.


Applying the TNMM on a company-wide basis becomes less reliable when the party being examined is engaged in various different Controlled Transactions or functions or operates different business segments that cannot be appropriately compared on an aggregate basis with those of an independent party. Therefore, Taxable Persons should seek to apply the TNMM on a transactional basis and not on a company-wide basis whereby the method is used to analyse only the profits of the Related Parties or Connected Persons that are attributable to simpler Controlled Transactions, functions or segments that are not interlinked. Depending on the facts of each case, a company- wide analysis may not be sufficient as a basis for a comprehensive Transfer Pricing analysis. However, Taxable Persons may opt to apply the TNMM, or any other method, on a company-wide basis to corroborate the results obtained from the separate analyses performed on a transactional basis.

Example 12: Application of the TNMM

A subsidiary Company B is a UAE distributor of coffee machines. All of Company B's coffee machines are produced by an overseas Related Party, Parent Co, which owns a household electrical appliances brand name. All of Company B's merchandise is purchased from its Parent Co. Company B holds limited amounts of buffer inventory and the associated holding costs are determined to be immaterial. Parent Co provides a product warranty to customers of Company B.

After performing the appropriate Functional Analysis, Company B was able to identify a series of UAE distributors of home electrical appliances as suitable comparable companies.

However, following a review of the financial information of the potential comparable companies, it is evident that a number of them record higher levels of inventory holding/warehousing expenses. While Company B's inventory holding cost constitutes less than 1% of its operating expenses, reliable market evidence indicates that independent distributors of household electrical appliances in the UAE incur inventory holding costs at an average of 15% of operating expenses. However, the available financial information of the potential comparable companies is not detailed enough to determine the classification of the inventory holding costs. As such, it may be more reliable to examine the net operating margins in this case. Considering the relevant factors above, it is determined that the TNMM, based on a return on sales as the profit level indicator is the most appropriate method to apply in this case.

The potential comparables earn operating profit margins of 10%. An analysis of Company B's financials is summarised below:


Company B's revenue
5,000
Company B's total purchase costs (i.e.
transfer price16)
(4,500)
Other operating expenses
(400)
Total costs
(4,900)
Operating profit
100
Operating	margin	(operating
profit/revenue)
2%











5.2.1.8. The Profit Split Method

The Profit Split Method (PSM) seeks to determine the division of profits that independent parties would have expected to realise from engaging in comparable transactions. This method first identifies the combined profits of the Related Parties or Connected Persons from a Controlled Transaction(s) and splits those profits on an economically valid basis. The resulting split should approximate the division of profits that would have been anticipated and reflected in an agreement made at arm's length between independent parties.

Further guidance on the use and application of the PSM is provided below. However, this Guide does not seek to provide an exhaustive catalogue of ways in which the PSM may be applied. Application of the method will depend on the facts and circumstances of the case and the information available, but the overriding objective should be to approximate as closely as possible the split of profits that would have been realised had the Related Parties or Connected Persons been independent parties.

Appropriate use of the PSM

The PSM is particularly relevant in the following cases:
* Where the Related Parties or Connected Persons engage in highly integrated business operations for which a one-sided method would not be appropriate. A high degree of integration means that the way in which one party to the transaction performs functions, uses assets and assumes risks is interlinked with, and cannot



16 Being the amount of the Controlled Transaction paid by Sub Company B to Parent Company.


reliably be evaluated in isolation from, the way in which another party to the transaction performs functions, uses assets and assumes risks.
* Where each of the parties to a Controlled Transaction make unique and valuable contributions or use unique and valuable intangibles in relation to the Controlled Transaction. Contributions are 'unique and valuable' where they are not comparable to contributions made by independent parties in comparable circumstances, and they represent a key source of actual or potential economic benefits in the business operations.
* Where each party to the controlled transaction shares the assumption of one or more of the economically significant risks in relation to that transaction.

In general, the PSM may be used in the absence of comparables indicating that an alternative Transfer Pricing method is the most appropriate method. However, the lack of comparables alone is insufficient to warrant the use of the PSM, and each of the above situations would need to be considered in determining whether the PSM is the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method.

5.2.1.9. Application of the PSM

There are two steps in the application of the PSM:
1. The first step is to determine the consolidated total profits earned by the Related Parties or Connected Persons from a Controlled Transaction. The profit to be split is generally the operating profit before interest and taxes.
2. The second step is to split the profit between the Related Parties or Connected Persons on an economically valid basis based on the relative value of their contributions to the Controlled Transaction(s), considering the functions performed, the assets used, and the risks assumed by each Related Party, in relation to what independent parties would have received. In general, the determination of the relevant profits to be split and of the profit splitting factors should be:
* consistent with the Functional Analysis of the Controlled Transaction under review, and in particular reflect the assumption of the economically significant risks by the parties, and
* capable of being measured in a reliable manner.

Where comparable data does exist, it could be useful in determining the division of profit that would have been achieved between independent parties in comparable circumstances. However, in those cases where there is no direct evidence of how independent parties in comparable circumstances would have split the profit in comparable transactions, the total profit may be split / allocated using one of the following approaches:
* Contribution analysis approach: where the total operating profit earned by the Related Parties or Connected Persons from a Controlled Transaction is divided between the Related Parties or Connected Persons based on the relative value of


the contributions made by each of the Related Parties or Connected Persons participating in the Controlled Transaction.
* Residual analysis approach: This approach splits the total profit in two steps:
- Step 1 - Each Related Party to the Controlled Transaction is allocated an arm's length return for the routine functions that it performs (for example, routine services or distribution). Typically, the return for routine contributions may be determined based on the TNMM or any other Transfer Pricing method.
- Step 2 - The residual profit (i.e. the profit remaining after the allocation of the return for routine contributions) is split using a contribution analysis or other allocation approach based on the underlying facts and circumstances of the Controlled Transaction. The relevant non-routine contributions (i.e. the unique and valuable contributions or assets, high level of integration or the shared assumption of economically significant risks) should be identified through a Functional Analysis of each Related Party.

These approaches are not necessarily exhaustive or mutually exclusive. Alternative ways may be used to split profit, as long as there is reasonable evidence that the selected approach produces a reliable arm's length result.

The approach followed in splitting the profit should be verifiable and based on internal accounting data or on publicly available and measurable market data. In practice, internal data such as relevant assets, costs, and headcount may be used as allocation keys to split the profit. For self-developed assets, which may not be on the balance sheet, valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow may be used. If more than one allocation key is used to split the profit between the Related Parties or Connected Persons, it is necessary to determine the relative contribution of each allocation key in earning the combined profits. The measure of profits to be split will depend on the risks the parties share.

In many cases, operating profit may be the most appropriate measure of profits to be split because the parties share the risks of the entire business. However, if the parties share only the risks associated with the volume of sales and production of the products, and they do not share the risks associated with selling the products in the marketplace, then a split of gross profit may be appropriate.

The profits to be split may include actual profits or anticipated profits, or a combination thereof. Guidance on when it is appropriate to split actual vs. anticipated profits is provided below:
* The splitting of actual profits is appropriate when all the relevant parties share the assumption of the same economically significant risks or separately assume closely related ones. This type of risk assumption may arise if the business operations are highly integrated and / or each party makes unique and valuable contributions.


* A split of anticipated profits, in contrast, would be more appropriate if one of the parties does not share in the assumption of all of the economically significant risks, which might exist after entering into the transaction.

The division of the relevant profits under the PSM is achieved using one or more profit splitting factors. The Functional Analysis and a contextual analysis (for example, of the industry and business environment) are essential to the process of determining the relevant factors to use in splitting profits, including determining the weighting of applicable profit splitting factors, in cases where more than one factor is used. The determination of the appropriate profit splitting factor(s) should reflect the key contributions to value in relation to the transaction. Whether actual or anticipated profits are split, the basis for splitting profits must be determined on the basis of the information known or reasonably available at the time the Related Parties or Connected Persons entered into the Controlled Transaction.

It is generally difficult to access reliable publicly available data on what profit split independent parties would agree upon under comparable facts and circumstances. Further, issues may arise in measuring the relevant financial data (for example, costs or asset base) which are used for the actual application of the PSM. Finally, the splitting factors which could be applied are in principle subject to judgment.

Example 13: Application of the PSM (residual analysis approach)

Company A is a seller of electric vehicles in the UAE. A subsidiary Company B is an overseas subsidiary of Company A. Both companies have collaborated in the development of a powerful rechargeable battery, as well as in design technology for the manufacturing of electric vehicles. Company A holds the patent for the manufacturing technology.

Company B is the only manufacturer licensed by Company A to use the special rechargeable battery. Company A purchases all of the electric vehicles manufactured by Company B and sells them to third parties.

Both companies contribute to the success of the electric vehicles through their efforts in (i) the development of the powerful rechargeable battery; and (ii) design technology. Due to the unique nature of the intellectual property contributions of the companies, the Group is unable to find sufficiently comparable independent companies for benchmarking purposes.

The companies are able to obtain reliable data on independent electric vehicle contract manufacturers and wholesalers, who do not own any unique intangible assets in the automotive industry. The independent contract manufacturers achieve a mark-up of 15% while the wholesalers achieve a gross margin of 25%.


Company A's and Company B's respective share of profit may be determined in two stages using the PSM (residual analysis approach). See below.

Stage 1 - Determining the return for routine contributions

The simplified P&L extracts of Company A and Company B are shown below:



Sub Company B (AED)
Company A (AED)
Sales
100
130
Cost of goods sold
(55)
(100)
Gross profit
45
30
Operating expenses
(5)
(10)
Operating profit
40
20

Group total operating profit = AED 60

Company B
Cost of goods sold

AED 55.00
Cost-plus mark-up - contract manufacturers (15% x AED 55)
AED 8.25
Compensation for routine manufacturing
AED 63.25
===========
Company A
Sales to third party customers


AED 130
Resale margin % - independent wholesalers (no intangibles)
 	25%
Resale margin (or gross profit)
AED 32.50
===========


The returns attributable to the companies for their routine contributions may be calculated as follows:

Company B (AED)
Routine manufacturing
Company A (AED)
Routine wholesale
Sales
63.25
-
Cost of goods sold
(55)
-
Gross profit
8.25
32.50
Operating expenses
(5)
(10)
Operating margin
3.25
22.5

The total operating profit attributable to routine contributions of the Group is AED 3.25 + AED 22.5 = AED 25.75.

Stage 2: Splitting the residual profit


The residual profit of the Group = AED 60 - AED 25.75 = AED 34.25.

Contribution analysis
Based on internal accounting records, the companies are able to accurately identify their respective costs incurred in relation to their joint efforts in research and development ("R&D") and investments in design technology. For illustrative purposes of this example, these expenses are considered appropriate measures of the companies' non-routine contribution towards the residual profits generated by the Group.

The R&D expenses and design technology expenses incurred by each company are as follows:


Design technology
R&D
Company A
AED 8 (80%)
AED 12 (75%)
Company B
AED 2 (20%)	
AED 3 (25%)

AED 10 (100%)
AED 15 (100%)

============
===========
Leveraging information available within the Group, as corroborated by publicly available industry and market data, it is determined that R&D drives up to 80% of the value created in the EV industry. As such, weights may be attributed to the R&D and design technology contributions in the ratio of 4:1.

Based on relative contribution of the companies, the residual profit may be split as follows:

Design
technology
R&D
TOTAL
Weights
1 (20%)
4 (80%)
100%
Allocable residual profit
AED 6.85
(20%	of	AED
34.25)
AED 27.4
(80% of 34.25)
AED 34.25
Company A
AED 5.48
(80% of 6.85)
AED 20.55
(75% of 27.4)
AED 26.03
Company B
AED 1.37
(20% of 6.85)
AED 6.85
(25% of 27.4)
AED 8.22

Company A's share of residual profit	AED 26.03
=========
Company B's share of residual profit	AED 8.22
=========
Therefore, the adjusted operating profits of each company are as follows:

Company A	= AED 26.03 + AED 22.50	= AED 48.53








Company B (AED)
Company A (AED)
Sales
71.47
130
Cost of goods sold
(55)
(71.47)
Gross margin
16.47
58.53
Operating expenses
(5)
(10)
Operating margin
11.47
48.53





5.2.1.10. Other Transfer Pricing methods

Article 34(4) of the Corporate Tax Law stipulates that the Arm's Length Price may be calculated using methods other than the five Transfer Pricing methods listed in the Corporate Tax Law, if none of the five recognised methods can be reasonably or reliably applied, and provided these other methods satisfy the Arm's Length Principle.

Where an alternative Transfer Pricing method has been used, adequate supporting documentation explaining the reason(s) for selecting the method including reasonable sufficient economical and commercial rationale, as well as clear disclosures of the underlying empirical analysis performed in applying the method must be provided. For example, a Person engaged in a real estate development project obtained under a term lease from a Related Party may opt to apply a Discounted Cash Flow ("DCF") approach in demonstrating the arm's length nature of the controlled lease payments if none of the five recognised Transfer Pricing methods can be reasonably applied to determine an arm's length result. Where the facts and circumstances of the case, as well as the functional and comparability analyses establish that the DCF is appropriate, the Person may proceed to apply the DCF approach. However, supporting documentation should be kept in any case (pursuant to Article 55(4) of the Corporate Tax Law) to corroborate the reason for selection of this approach, relevant variables, presentation of the quantitative analysis and other relevant information and supporting documentation.





5.2.2. Selection of the most appropriate method

The selection of a Transfer Pricing method always aims at finding the most appropriate method for a particular case. For this purpose, the selection process should take into account the following:
* The strengths and weaknesses of the five recognised Transfer Pricing methods.
* The appropriateness of the method considered in view of the nature of the Controlled Transaction as determined in a Functional Analysis.
* The availability of reliable information (in particular on uncontrolled comparables) needed to apply each method. It is especially important to assess whether publicly available data can be drawn from commercial databases or other publicly available sources.
* The degree of comparability between the Controlled Transactions and independent transactions, including the accuracy of any resulting adjustments that may be required to eliminate differences between the transactions.

The FTA's preferred approach is for Transfer Pricing methods to be applied on a transactional level where possible, which means that the most appropriate method should be applied to each relevant transaction. However, there may be situations where the Transfer Pricing methods could be applied on an aggregated basis, for example applying the TNMM on a company-wide basis to test the overall profitability.

5.2.3. Using a combination of Transfer Pricing methods

In most circumstances, the use of one of the recognised Transfer Pricing methods will provide a sufficient accurate basis for determining the Arm's Length Price of a transaction. However, there may be specific cases where the application of one of the Transfer Pricing methods proves inconclusive and a combination of methods may be the most accurate approach. Where a combination of methods is used to test the Arm's Length Principle, the primary aim should be to reach a conclusion that takes account of the facts, circumstances and available evidence of the case.

For example, a Person may have applied the RPM, but struggled to introduce reliable adjustments to account for key differences observed between the Controlled and


uncontrolled transaction. In such a case, the Person may opt to introduce a corroborative analysis by also applying the TNMM to demonstrate that the outcome of the Controlled Transaction is in line with the Arm's Length Principle by assessing the net margin of the tested party under an appropriate profit level indicator (as further discussed in Section 5.2.2).

5.3. Step 3: Determination of the Arm's Length Price

Once the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method has been identified, the method is applied on the tested party and on the data of Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction(s) to arrive at the Arm's Length Price.

5.3.1. Choice of the tested party

The use of CPM, RPM and TNMM requires a decision on which party to apply the Transfer Pricing method. When applying a CPM, RPM or TNMM, it is necessary to choose the party to the transaction for which a financial indicator (mark-up on costs, gross margin, or net profit indicator) is tested.

As a general rule, the tested party is the one to where:
* a Transfer Pricing method can be applied in the most reliable manner; and
* the most reliable comparables can be found.

The choice of the tested party should be consistent with the Functional Analysis of the Controlled Transaction. The party with the less complex Functional Analysis i.e. smaller scope of functions and less complex operations should be used as the tested party.

5.3.2. Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions

The economically relevant characteristics of the Controlled Transaction have to be compared with those of uncontrolled transactions that are regarded as potentially comparable in order to determine an Arm's Length Price for the Uncontrolled Transaction. A Comparable Uncontrolled Transaction can be either a comparable transaction between one party to the Controlled Transaction and an independent party (internal comparable), or between two independent parties, neither of which is a party to the Controlled Transaction (external comparable).

5.3.2.1. Internal comparables

Internal comparables may have a more direct and closer relationship to the Controlled Transaction under review than external comparables. The financial analysis may be easier and more reliable as it will presumably rely on identical accounting standards and practices for the internal comparable and for the Controlled Transaction. In


addition, access to information on internal comparables may be both more complete and less costly.

However, internal comparables are not always more reliable and it is not the case that any transaction between the Person and an independent party can be regarded as a reliable comparable for Controlled Transactions carried on by the same Person. However, whenever reliable internal comparables exist, it may be unnecessary to search for external comparables.

5.3.2.2. External comparables and sources of information

There are various sources of information that can be used to identify potential external comparables. A common source of information is commercial databases which act as repositories for company accounts.

Commercial databases tend to provide access to a wide variety of potential comparables. Therefore, database searches typically start with a wide set of third- party data or companies that may be broadly comparable. These could be companies that operate in the same sector, perform similar broad functions and do not carry economic characteristics that are obviously different based on standard industry codes. The list of potential comparables is then refined using selection criteria and publicly available information (for example, from databases or reliable internet sites). Therefore, it is important that the database searches are systematically designed to develop search strategies that assist in screening the vast list of potential comparables in line with criteria that are relevant to the Controlled Transaction. It is best to seek quality over quantity of potential comparables when performing a database search and selecting comparables.

The information obtained from commercial databases may need to be refined with other publicly available information, depending on the facts and circumstances to enhance the reliability of the underlying data used in the comparability analysis.

A number of limitations to commercial databases are frequently identified. Because these commercial databases rely on publicly available information, they may not be available in all jurisdictions, since not all jurisdictions are aligned on what company data should be publicly available. Moreover, where information is available, the presentation and level of detail may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction because disclosure and filing requirements may differ depending on the legal form of the enterprise or the specific requirements of the jurisdiction. It is important that the identification of potential comparables is made with the objective of finding the most reliable data, recognising that they will not always be perfect. For instance, independent transactions may be scarce in certain markets and industries.


A pragmatic solution may need to be found, on a case-by-case basis, to address the limitations of the commercial databases, such as broadening the search and using information on uncontrolled transactions taking place -
* in the same industry and a comparable geographical market, but performed by third parties that may have different business strategies, business models or other slightly different economic circumstances;
* in the same industry but in other similar geographical markets; or
* in the same geographical market but in other industries.

The choice among these various options will depend on the facts and circumstances of the case, and in particular on the significance of the expected effects of comparability defects on the reliability of the analysis. However, even in cases where comparable data is scarce and imperfect, the selection of the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method (as per the guidance above) should be consistent with the Functional Analysis of the Related Parties or Connected Persons.

The FTA does not have a preference for any particular commercial database as long as it provides a reliable source of information that assists Taxable Persons in performing comparability analysis; provided that the order for applying comparables is followed (local, regional (Middle East), then other regions).

Whichever database the Taxable Person chooses to select comparables from, adequate documentation should be maintained to demonstrate the results of the comparability analysis. Where a Taxable Person has used a private database to support its transfer prices, the FTA may request access to the database in line with Article 55(4) of the Corporate Tax Law to review the Taxable Person's results and to better understand the conclusions reached.

5.3.2.3. Non-domestic comparables

As far as possible, Taxable Persons should use domestic comparables in their comparability analysis as these comparables generally have a higher degree of comparability in terms of their market and economic circumstances compared to foreign comparables. Where insufficient data is available at the domestic level, Taxable Persons can consider regional or global comparables.

5.3.2.4. Selection of potential comparables

The search for information on potentially Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions and the process of identifying comparables is dependent upon prior analysis of the Controlled Transaction and of the economically relevant characteristics or comparability factors. A methodical, consistent approach should provide some continuity or linkage in the whole analytical process, thereby maintaining a constant relationship amongst the various steps: from the preliminary analysis of the conditions


of the Controlled Transaction and the comparability analysis, to the selection of the Transfer Pricing method, through to the identification of potential comparables and ultimately a conclusion about whether the Controlled Transactions being examined are consistent with the Arm's Length Principle.

Broadly, there are two ways in which the identification of potentially comparable Uncontrolled Transactions can be conducted:

* Additive approach: This starts with identifying a list of independent parties that are believed to carry out potentially comparable transactions. Information is then collected on transactions conducted by these independent parties to confirm whether they are in effect acceptable comparables, based on the predetermined comparability criteria. In practice, the additive approach may include both internal and external comparables.
* Deductive approach: This starts with a wide set of companies that operate in the same sector of activity as the tested party, perform similar broad functions as the tested party and do not present economic characteristics that are obviously different. The list is then refined using selection criteria and publicly available information (for example from databases, internet sites, information on known competitors of the tested party). In practice, the deductive approach typically starts with a search on a database.

Once the potential comparables are identified, both quantitative and qualitative criteria are used to include or reject potential comparables identified. Qualitative criteria can be found in product portfolios and business strategies. Quantitative criteria includes:
* size criteria in terms of sales, assets or number of employees,
* intangible-related criteria such as ratios of net value of intangibles/total net assets value, or ratio of R&D/sales, where available,
* criteria related to the importance of export sales, where relevant,
* criteria related to inventories in absolute or relative value, where relevant, and
* other criteria to exclude independent parties that are in particular special situations such as start-up companies, bankrupted companies, etc. when such peculiar situations are obviously not appropriate comparisons.

The choice and application of selection criteria depends on the facts and circumstances of each particular case and the above list is neither limitative nor prescriptive.

The process followed to identify potential comparables is one of the most critical aspects of the comparability analysis and it should be transparent, systematic and verifiable. In particular, the choice of selection criteria has a significant influence on the outcome of the analysis and should reflect the most meaningful economic characteristics of the transactions compared. Complete elimination of subjective judgments from the selection of comparables would not be feasible, but much can be


done to increase objectivity and ensure transparency in the application of subjective judgments.

Taxable Persons should maintain appropriate supporting information that describe the criteria used to select potential comparables and the reasons for excluding some of the potential comparables. Such information can be used by the FTA to assess the reliability of the comparables used.

5.3.3. Comparability adjustments

Both for the general application of the Arm's Length Principle and more specifically in the context of each method, there may be a need to adjust the potential comparables for accuracy and reliability purposes. Comparability adjustments should be considered if (and only if) they are expected to increase the reliability of the results.

Comparability adjustments include adjustments for accounting consistency designed to eliminate the impact of differences that may arise from differing accounting practices between the Controlled and uncontrolled transactions; segmentation of financial data to eliminate the material impact of differences of non-comparable transactions; and adjustments for differences in capital, functions, assets and risks.

For example, working capital cycles and the related costs tend to have significant implications on profitability in certain industries. Where such considerations are relevant, working capital adjustments designed to account for the impact of differing levels of accounts receivable, accounts payable and inventory may be undertaken to enhance the reliability of the arm's length analysis. Where undertaken, Taxable Persons are expected to provide adequate justification for all comparability adjustments.

Under Clause 8, 9 and 10 of Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law, the FTA may make comparability adjustments to Taxable Persons' results where the results do not fall within the arm's length range.

5.3.4. Determining the arm's length range

As Transfer Pricing is not an exact science, it is generally difficult to arrive at a single figure (for example, price or margin) that is the most reliable to establish whether the conditions of a Controlled Transaction are at arm's length.

As per Article 34(7) of the Corporate Tax Law, the application of the selected Transfer Pricing method or combination of Transfer Pricing methods on the data of Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions may result in a range of financial results or indicators (for example, prices or margins) which are all relatively equally reliable and at the same time acceptable for establishing the arm's length result of a Controlled Transaction.


This range of figures is referred to as the "arm's length range", and arises either from applying the same Transfer Pricing method to multiple comparable data or from applying different Transfer Pricing methods.

 5.3.4.1. Application of statistical measures to determine arm's length range

If the identified range of financial results or indicators includes a sizeable number of observations, statistical tools that take account of central tendency to narrow the range (for example, the interquartile range or other percentiles) would be useful to enhance the reliability of the analysis. The use of statistical measures also prevents the impact of outliers and exceptional circumstances.

In this respect, the acceptance of the interquartile range is considered an appropriate approach to determine an arm's length range of financial results or indicators because it provides a more robust measure of central tendency and variability compared to other statistical measures like the arithmetic mean or median. The interquartile range is obtained by dividing the dataset in four (4) equal parts. By doing so, three unique points amongst the dataset are derived, namely the lower quartile (the middle number/figure between the lowest value and the median), the median (the middle value of all observations) and the upper quartile (the middle number/figure between the median and the highest value). The interquartile range then represents all data between the lower quartile and the upper quartile.







Serial No.
Company Name
3-year	weighted
average margins
1
Comp 1
6.46%
2
Comp 2
8.70%
3
Comp 3
5.12%
4
Comp 4
0.83%
5
Comp 5
5.66%
6
Comp 6
7.00%
7
Comp 7
8.36%
8
Comp 8
1.80%
9
Comp 9
8.74%
10
Comp 10
3.69%
11
Comp 11
4.32%
12
Comp 12
13.90%
13
Comp 13
9.16%
14
Comp 14
3.83%


15
Comp 15
0.60%
16
Comp 16
4.34%

The above comparables are re-arranged based on ascending order of the 3-year weighted average margins of the comparable companies. This is to assist in better understanding of inter-quartile range.

Serial. No.
Company Name
3-year Weighted
Average margins
1
Comp 15
0.60%
2
Comp 4
0.83%
3
Comp 8
1.80%
4
Comp 10
3.69%
5
Comp 14
3.83%
6
Comp 11
4.32%
7
Comp 16
4.34%
8
Comp 3
5.12%
9
Comp 5
5.66%
10
Comp 1
6.46%
11
Comp 6
7.00%
12
Comp 7
8.36%
13
Comp 2
8.70%
14
Comp 9
8.74%
15
Comp 13
9.16%
16
Comp 12
13.90%

The resulting full and interquartile range of the above observations is as follows:


Particulars
3-year weighted average margins
Count
16
Minimum
0.60%
Lower Quartile
3.80%
Median
5.39%
Upper Quartile
8.45%
Maximum
13.90%

The lower quartile, or first quartile (Q1) of 3.8%, is the value under which 25% of 3- year weighted average margins of the comparable companies are found when they are arranged in increasing order.




A substantial deviation among points in the arm's length range may indicate that the data used in establishing some of the points may not be as reliable as the data used to establish the other points in the range or that the deviation may result from features of the comparable data that require adjustments. In such cases, further analysis of those points may be necessary to evaluate their suitability for inclusion in any arm's length range.

5.3.4.2. Selecting the most appropriate point in the arm's length range

As per Article 34(7) of the Corporate Tax Law, any point within the arm's length range is acceptable in establishing the Arm's Length Price of the Controlled Transactions of a Taxable Person.

The FTA will consider the reliability of the arm's length range when assessing the appropriateness of the selected point in the range.

The FTA will also take into consideration the functional profile of the Taxpayer/Controlled Transaction when assessing the most appropriate point within the range. A point closer to the lower interquartile may be appropriate for a company performing very limited functions, holds no assets and assumes no risks. A point closer to the upper quartile may indicate high value functions, ability to assume risk and employ assets.

5.3.4.3. Extreme results

Extreme results could be produced in case the benchmarking brings about figures that fall in the extreme ends of the interquartile range. Extreme results might consist of losses or unusually high profits and can affect the financial indicators. Where one or more of the potential comparables have extreme results, further examination would be needed to understand the reasons for such extreme results. The reason might be a defect in comparability such as losses not reflecting normal business conditions, losses reflecting a level of risk that is not comparable to the one assumed in the Controlled Transaction, or exceptional conditions met by an otherwise comparable third party. An extreme result may be excluded on the basis that a previously overlooked significant comparability defect has been brought to light, not on the sole


basis that the results arising from the proposed "comparable" merely appear to be very different from the results observed in other proposed "comparables".

Generally, a loss-making uncontrolled transaction or loss-making company should trigger further investigation in order to establish whether or not it can be comparable to the Controlled Transaction. Circumstances in which loss-making transactions/ enterprises should be excluded from the list of comparables include cases where losses do not reflect normal business conditions, and where the losses incurred by third parties reflect a level of risks that is not comparable to the one assumed by the Taxable Person in its Controlled Transactions.

5.3.5. Other considerations

5.3.5.1. Timing of origin

In principle, information relating to the conditions of Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions undertaken or carried out during the same period of time as the Controlled Transaction (contemporaneous uncontrolled transactions) is expected to be the most reliable information to use in a comparability analysis. Such transactions better reflect how independent parties have behaved in an economic environment that is the same as the economic environment of the Taxable Person's Controlled Transaction.

5.3.5.2. Timing of data collection

Taxable Persons may prepare Transfer Pricing documentation to demonstrate that they have made reasonable efforts to comply with the Arm's Length Principle at different points of time. There are two general approaches:
* Arm's length price-setting approach: where Transfer Pricing documentation is prepared at the time the Controlled Transactions were undertaken, or based on information that was reasonably available to the Taxable Person at that point. Such information includes not only information on comparable transactions from previous years, but also information on economic and market changes that may have occurred between those previous years and the year of the Controlled Transaction.
* Arm's length outcome-testing approach: where the actual outcome of the Controlled Transactions is tested to demonstrate that the conditions of these transactions were consistent with the Arm's Length Principle. Such a test typically takes place as part of the process for preparing the Tax Return at the end of the Tax Period.

It is recommended for Taxable Persons to ensure that the approaches are applied consistently and result in the same outcome for all the Related Parties or Connected Persons to the Controlled Transaction.



5.3.5.3. Multiple year data

In practice, examining multiple-year data is often useful in a comparability analysis. In order to obtain a complete understanding of the facts and circumstances surrounding the Controlled Transaction, it may be useful to examine data from both the year under examination and prior years. Looking at multiple years can reveal factors that may have influenced (or should have influenced) the determination of the transfer price. For example, the use of data from past years will show whether reported losses on a Controlled Transaction are part of a history of losses on Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions. Further examination may then reveal that this is the result of particular economic conditions in a prior year that increased costs in the subsequent year.

Multiple-year data can improve the understanding of long-term arrangements, provide insights into relevant business and product life cycles of the comparables and improve the process of selecting third-party comparables.

Use of multiple-year data and averages generally improves the reliability of the range of financial results, especially where transactional profit methods are applied. As the use of multiple-year data may produce a broader set of financial results and indicators, statistical tools will be useful in analysing the results for purposes of determining the arm's length range.

The examination of multiple-year data is typically done for 3 years inclusive of the year in which the transaction is undertaken. When using a 3-year period, at least 2 years of data should be available in order to accept the comparable company.

5.3.5.4. Frequency of updating the search for comparables

Searches for comparables should be fully updated every three years with an annual financial update of the comparables in the interim years as a minimum requirement. In case of a change in circumstances of the Controlled Transaction or Related Parties (or Connected Persons), the full analysis on the selection of comparables needs to be undertaken in the year of the change in circumstances.


6. Transfer Pricing Documentation

6.1. Introduction

Article 55 of the Corporate Tax Law specifies the Transfer Pricing documentation obligations on a Taxable Person that enters into transactions with its Related Parties or Connected Persons.

Generally, Transfer Pricing documentation refers to a set of records prepared by Taxable Persons to demonstrate their compliance with the Arm's Length Principle in their Related Party transactions. The purpose of Transfer Pricing documentation is to provide the FTA with a clear and comprehensive understanding of the Taxable Person's Transfer Pricing policies and their application, to test the Transfer Pricing outcome for each relevant period under review.

This section provides an overview of several areas related to Transfer Pricing documentation, including:
* understanding	the	objectives	and	requirements	of	the	Transfer	Pricing documentation requirements in the UAE;
* General Transfer Pricing disclosure form;
* Master File;
* Local File; and
* Country-by-Country Reporting ("CbCR").

These different Transfer Pricing requirements may apply depending on the size of the business. A Master file and local file are required from businesses that are part of an MNE Group with consolidated revenue over 3.15 billion AED or where the Taxable Person's Revenue exceeds 200 million AED. CbCR also only applies to businesses that are part of an MNE Group with consolidated revenue over 3.15 billion AED17.

As mentioned above, the purpose of the Transfer Pricing documentation is to provide an understanding of the Taxable Person's Transfer Pricing practices, and to test the outcomes with the Arm's Length Principle in relation to Controlled Transactions. Accordingly, and in addition to the above statutory requirements, Taxable Persons are encouraged to maintain and provide to the FTA when requested any additional documentation which supports the arm's length basis of the transaction.

Under Article 55(4) of the UAE Corporate Tax Law, the FTA may request certain information from Taxable Persons who are not required to maintain a Local File and Master File. Examples of the information that the FTA may request include- Information regarding transactions with Related Parties and Connected Persons;
- any information to support the arm's length nature of the transaction,

17 See further in Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023.


- any other information that the FTA deems necessary to assess the arm's length nature of the transaction, and
- information used for application of the chosen method. Such additional documentation may include (but is not limited to) documentation supporting arm's length analysis of the Controlled Transaction (i.e. Functional Analysis, benchmarking studies, intercompany agreements, meeting minutes, evidence of decisions taken, emails, invoices, workpapers computing the transfer prices, among others).

The FTA expects the Person to prepare and maintain documentation explaining all relevant information used for the application of the chosen method. Taxable Persons should provide sufficiently detailed documentation to support the factors selected, weights assigned to the factors where multiple factors are used, as well as the details of the numerical adjustments performed. To the extent possible, the documentation should include reliable publicly available market references.

6.2. Objectives of Transfer Pricing documentation

Transfer Pricing documentation is prepared with the intention of serving three primary objectives:
1. ensuring that Taxable Persons appropriately consider Transfer Pricing requirements when setting prices and other terms for transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons, and accurately report outcomes of these transactions on their Tax Returns;
2. providing the FTA with the necessary data to conduct a Transfer Pricing risk assessment and arrive at an informed position regarding the need for an audit; and
3. providing the FTA with the necessary information to facilitate a comprehensive audit of the Transfer Pricing practices of Persons subject to Corporate Tax in the UAE, while recognising the potential need for additional information as the audit progresses.

6.3. Contemporaneous Transfer Pricing documentation

Taxable Persons are required to maintain contemporaneous Transfer Pricing documentation of their controlled transactions to demonstrate compliance with Transfer Pricing regulations and maintain the integrity of their Corporate Tax positions.

The FTA expects that documentation is maintained either at the time of the Controlled Transaction or, by the time the Taxable Person submits its Tax Return for the Tax Period in which the Controlled Transaction is undertaken. As further described below, such documentation should contain an exhaustive and detailed description of the Controlled Transactions, the economic conditions surrounding them, and the analysis and conclusions that led to the determination of the transfer prices.


By maintaining contemporaneous Transfer Pricing documentation, Taxable Persons can demonstrate that their Transfer Pricing policies comply with the Arm's Length Principle. These policies and the supporting documentation should be prepared, regularly reviewed and reassessed at least annually to reflect changes in the Taxable Person's business or structure and the regulatory and wider business environment.

6.4. Summary of the UAE Transfer Pricing documentation requirements

The relevant UAE legislation has outlined five Transfer Pricing documentation requirements for certain Taxable Persons that are required to be prepared for each Tax Period:18
1. Transfer Pricing disclosure form which covers details of the Controlled Transactions during a Tax Period.
2. Master File which provides a high-level overview of the Group's business and the allocation of income and economic activity within a Group. It only applies to large businesses as set out in the Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023.
3. Local File which provides detailed information on operations of the local entity and analysis and testing of the outcomes of the Controlled Transactions against the Arm's Length Principle. It only applies to large businesses as set out in the Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023.
4. Country-by-Country Report which provides jurisdictional quantitative information about an MNE Group (above AED 3,150,000,000) as well as an overview of the different activities conducted by affiliates of an MNE Group, as set out in Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020.
5. Additional supporting information upon request of the FTA, pursuant to Article 55(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.

These distinct types of Transfer Pricing documentation are further detailed below.

6.5. Transfer Pricing disclosure form

Pursuant to Article 55(1) of the Corporate Tax Law, all Taxable Persons who undertake transactions with Related Parties or Connected Persons (domestic or foreign) in the reporting Tax Period and are above a materiality threshold are required to prepare and submit a general Transfer Pricing disclosure form, alongside their Tax Return.

A sample of the Transfer Pricing disclosure form to be completed annually by Taxable Persons will be available in due course on the FTA's website. The Transfer Pricing disclosure form includes information on the broad categories of transactions and arrangements undertaken by the Taxable Person with its Related Parties or Connected Persons. Information provided in the disclosure form includes the nature

18 Corporate Tax Law and the Cabinet Resolution No.44 of 2020


of the Controlled Transaction(s), the value of the Controlled Transaction(s), details of the Related Party(ies) and the Transfer Pricing method(s) used to determine the arm's length value of the Controlled Transactions.

The Transfer Pricing disclosure form is to be submitted alongside the Tax return within 9 months from the end of the relevant Tax Period.

6.6. Master File and Local File

Master File and Local File are part of the three-tiered standardised approach to Transfer Pricing documentation prescribed under the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and BEPS Action 13 (together with Country-by-Country Reporting). The Master File is aimed at providing a high-level overview of the Transfer Pricing policies of an MNE Group, whereas the more detailed information is contained in the local file.

Keeping both a Master File and a Local File is a requirement for Taxable Persons that are a Constituent Company of an MNE Group that has a total consolidated group Revenue of AED 3,150,000,000 or more in the relevant Tax Period, or where the Taxable Person's Revenue in the relevant Tax Period is AED 200,000,000 or more.19

6.6.1. Master File

A Master File is a type of Transfer Pricing documentation that provides a high-level overview of the MNE Group's global business operations, Transfer Pricing policies, information on key value drivers, and a global allocation of income and economic activity. Its purpose is to assist the FTA in evaluating significant Transfer Pricing risks and determining the MNE Group's Transfer Pricing practices in their global economic, legal, financial, and tax context. The information required in a Master File provides a "blueprint" of the MNE Group and contains relevant information that can be broken down into the following five categories:
* the MNE Group's organisational structure;
* a description of the MNE Group's business(es);
* the MNE Group's intangibles (as defined in Chapter VI of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines);
* the MNE Group's intercompany financial activities; and
* the MNE Group's financial and tax positions.

A Master File is required to be prepared for each Tax Period based on the specific facts and circumstances of the MNE Group's global business for that particular Fiscal Year.




19 Article 2(1) of Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023.


6.6.1.1. Master File information

The Master File content follows the requirements under Annex I to Chapter V of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines.

The Taxable Persons in scope should present the MNE Group information in a Master File in a consolidated format. The Master File must include information on:

Organisational structure:
* A chart illustrating the MNE Group's legal and ownership structure and geographical location of operating entities.

Description of MNE Group's business(es):
* A general written description of the MNEs business including:
o Important drivers of business profit.
o A description of the supply chain for the group's five largest products and/ or service offerings by turnover plus any other products and/or services amounting to more than 5% of group turnover. The required description could take the form of a chart or a diagram.
o A list and brief description of important service arrangements between members of the MNE Group, other than research and development (R&D) services, including a description of the capabilities of the principal locations providing important services and Transfer Pricing policies for allocating services costs and determining prices to be paid for intra-group services.
o A description of the main geographic markets for the group's products and services that are referred to in the second bullet point above.
o A brief written functional analysis describing the principal contributions to value creation by individual entities within the group, i.e. key functions performed, important risks assumed, and important assets used.
o A a description of important business restructuring transactions, acquisitions and divestitures occurring during the fiscal year.

MNE Group's intangibles:
* A general description of the MNE Group's overall strategy for the development, ownership and exploitation of intangibles, including location of principal R&D facilities and location of R&D management.
* A list of intangibles or groups of intangibles of the MNE Group that are important for Transfer Pricing purposes and which entities legally own them.
* A list of important agreements among identified associated enterprises related to intangibles, including cost contribution arrangements, principal research service agreements and license agreements.
* A general description of the group's Transfer Pricing policies related to R&D and intangibles.


* A general description of any important transfers of interests in intangibles among associated enterprises during the fiscal year concerned, including the entities, countries and compensation involved.

MNE Group's intercompany financial activities:
* A general description of how the group is financed, including important financing arrangements with unrelated lenders.
* The identification of any members of the MNE Group that provide a central financing function for the group, including the country under whose laws the entity is organised and the place of effective management of such entities.
* A general description of the MNE Group's general Transfer Pricing policies related to financing arrangements between associated enterprises.

MNE Group's financial and tax positions:
* The MNE Group's annual consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year concerned if otherwise prepared for financial reporting, regulatory, internal management, tax or other purposes.
* A list and brief description of the MNE Group's existing unilateral advance pricing agreements (APAs) and other tax rulings relating to the allocation of income among countries.

A presentation by line of business is permitted where well justified by the facts (for example, where the structure of the MNE Group is such that some significant business lines operate largely independently or were recently acquired). Where line of business presentation is used, care should be taken to assure that centralised Group functions and transactions between business lines are properly described in the Master File. Even where a line of business presentation is selected, the entire Master File consisting of all business lines should be available to each jurisdiction in order to assure that an appropriate overview of the MNE Group's global business is provided.

6.6.2. Local File

A Local File is a type of Transfer Pricing documentation that provides more detailed information relating to specific Controlled Transactions in the relevant Tax Period. It covers transactions taking place between local country affiliate and associated enterprises, including information on the identity of Related Parties or Connected Persons, relevant financial information regarding those specific transactions, a comparability analysis and the selection and application of the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method. It supplements a Master File and helps to ensure that the Taxable Person has complied with the Arm's Length Principle in its Transfer Pricing positions affecting a specific jurisdiction. A Local File focuses on information relevant to the Transfer Pricing analysis related to each specific transaction taking place between the Taxable Person and its Related Parties or Connected Persons in the relevant Tax Period.



The following categories of information are required in the Local File:
* Information on the local entity.
* Detailed information on each material category of controlled transactions in which the entity is involved, including a functional analysis of each, an indication of the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method (including which party is selected as the 'tested party') and the application of that method.
* Financial information.

The taxpayer is allowed to cross reference to the information contained in the master file.

While all Controlled Transactions need to be conducted in line with the Arm's Length Principle, the Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023 has set out scenarios where the following types of Controlled Transactions need to be documented by a Taxable Person in its Local File:
* Controlled Transactions entered into with a Non-Resident Person other than a PE of a Non-Resident Person that is subject to the same Corporate Tax rate as the Taxable Person (for example, cross border transactions).
* Controlled Transactions entered into with an Exempt Person (i.e. Persons not subject to Corporate Tax).
* Controlled Transactions entered into by a Taxable Person with a Resident Person that benefits from the small business relief.
* Controlled Transactions entered into by a Taxable Person with a Resident Person who is subject to a different Corporate Tax rate from that applicable to the Taxable Person (for example, transactions with a Qualifying Free Zone Person).

In addition to the above, it should be noted that the following Controlled Transactions are exempt from being included in a Local File:
1. Controlled Transactions entered into by the Taxable Person with Natural Persons (provided that they are acting as if they were independent of each other).
2. Controlled Transactions entered into by the Taxable Person with a juridical person that is considered to be a Related Party or a Connected Person solely by virtue of being a partner in an Unincorporated Partnership (provided that they are acting as if they were independent of each other).
3. Controlled Transactions with a PE of a Non-Resident Person provided that the PE is subject to the same Corporate Tax rate as the Taxable Person.

While the above transactions do not need to be documented in a Local File, these Controlled Transactions should nevertheless be undertaken on an arm's length basis. The Taxable Person should also be able to provide documentation to the FTA to support the arm's length nature of these transactions when requested.


The Master File and the Local File are to be prepared and maintained by the Taxable Persons as identified above contemporaneously. Such documentation may be requested to be provided to the FTA within 30 days, or by a longer period of time if agreed by the FTA.

6.6.2.1. Local File information

The Local File content follows the requirements under Annex II to Chapter V of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and must include the following information:

Local entity:
* A description of the management structure of the local entity, a local organisation chart, a description of the individuals to whom local management reports and the country(ies) in which such individuals maintain their principal offices.
* A detailed description of the business and business strategy pursued by the local entity including an indication whether the local entity has been involved in or affected by business restructurings or intangibles transfers in the present or immediately past year and an explanation of those aspects of such transactions affecting the local entity.
* Identification of the key competitors.

Controlled transactions:
For each material category of controlled transactions in which the entity is involved:
* A description of the material-controlled transactions (for example procurement of manufacturing services, purchase of goods, provision of services, loans, financial and performance guarantees, licenses of intangibles) and the context in which such transactions take place.
* The amount of intra-group payments and receipts for each category of controlled transactions involving the local entity (i.e. payments and receipts for products, services, royalties, interest, etc.) broken down by tax jurisdiction of the foreign payor or recipient.
* An identification of associated enterprises involved in each category of controlled transactions and the relationship amongst them.
* Copies of all material intercompany agreements concluded by the local entity.
* A detailed comparability and functional analysis of the taxpayer and relevant associated enterprises with respect to each documented category of controlled transactions, including any changes compared to prior years.
* An indication of the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method with regard to the category of transaction and the reasons for selecting that method.
* An indication of which associated enterprise is selected as the tested party, if applicable, and an explanation of the reasons for this selection.
* A summary of the important assumptions made in applying the Transfer Pricing methodology.


* If relevant, an explanation of the reasons for performing a multi-year analysis.
* A list and description of selected comparable uncontrolled transactions (internal or external), if any, and information on relevant financial indicators for independent enterprises relied on in the Transfer Pricing analysis, including a description of the comparable search methodology and the source of such information.
* A description of any comparability adjustments performed, and an indication of whether adjustments have been made to the results of the tested party, the comparable uncontrolled transactions, or both.
* A description of the reasons for concluding that relevant transactions were priced on an arm's length basis based on the application of the selected Transfer Pricing method.
* A summary of financial information used in applying the Transfer Pricing method.
* A copy of existing unilateral and bilateral/multilateral APAs and other tax rulings to which the local tax jurisdiction is not a party, and which are related to controlled transactions described above.

Financial information:
* Annual local entity financial accounts for the fiscal year concerned. If audited statements exist, they should be supplied and if not, existing unaudited statements should be supplied.
* Information and allocation schedules showing how the financial data used in applying the Transfer Pricing method may be tied to the annual financial statements.
* Summary schedules of relevant financial data for comparables used in the analysis and the sources from which that data was obtained.

6.6.3. Exceptions on maintenance of a Master File and a Local File

As per Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023, a Taxable Person is required to maintain both a master file and a local file if they meet either of the following conditions in the relevant Tax Period:
a) where the Taxable Person, for any time during the relevant Tax Period, is a Constituent Company of a Multinational Enterprises Group as defined in the Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 referred to above that has a total consolidated group Revenue of AED 3,150,000,000 (three billion one hundred and fifty million United Arab Emirates Dirham) or more in the relevant Tax Period; or
b) where the Taxable Person's Revenue in the relevant Tax Period is AED 200,000,000 (two hundred million United Arab Emirates Dirham) or more.

However, as an exception, any Taxable Person that is part of a UAE headquartered group that is not an MNE Group (i.e. a group that does not have business establishments outside the UAE) is not required to maintain a Master File. However, they should maintain a Local File as per the above thresholds.


A Taxable Person not meeting either of the conditions is not required to maintain either a Master File or a Local File. In such cases, the Taxable Person is still required to maintain reasonable records to support the arm's length nature of the Taxable Person's transactions or arrangements with its Related Parties and Connected Persons. The FTA can request such information to be produced within (30) thirty days following a request by the FTA, or by any such other later date as the FTA directs.20

6.7. Country-by-Country Reporting (CbCR)

CbCR is the third tier of Transfer Pricing documentation set in BEPS Action 13.

CbCR is a standardised report which includes aggregate tax jurisdiction information relating to the global allocation of the income, the taxes paid, and certain indicators of the location of economic activity among tax jurisdictions in which the MNE Group operates. The report also requires a listing of all the Constituent Companies for which financial information is reported, including the tax jurisdiction of incorporation, where different from the tax jurisdiction of residence, as well as the nature of the main Business Activities carried out by that Constituent Company.

The UAE introduced CbCR requirements through Cabinet Resolution No.44 of 2020. As per Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020, the form of a CbCR follows the Standard Template attached in Annex (3) to Chapter (V) of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. Specifically, a CbCR includes the following three tables:
* Table 1 - Contains the quantitative information per tax jurisdiction such as unrelated party and related party revenues, stated capital, taxes accrued and paid, employee count, etc.
* Table 2 - Contains the qualitative information per Constituent Company on the main business activities undertaken during the year.
* Table 3 - Contains additional information necessary to facilitate the understanding of Tables 1 and 2 (for example, assumptions on exchange rates, source of data, etc.)

The UAE CbCR requirements are applicable to MNE Groups headquartered in the UAE with consolidated Group revenue equal to or above AED 3.15 billion (approximately EUR 750 million) during the Fiscal Year immediately preceding the reporting Fiscal Year.21

The Ultimate Parent Entity will be required to submit a CbCR notification in respect of each reporting Fiscal Year.22 The CbCR notification needs to be submitted no later


20 Article 55(4) of the Corporate Tax Law.
21 Article 2(1)(a) of the Ministerial Decision No. 97 of 2023.
22 Article 2(2) of Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020.


than the last day of the Fiscal Year and it informs the FTA that the Ultimate Parent Entity is the reporting Entity which will file the CbCR.23 The Ultimate Parent Entity is also required to file the CbCR no later than 12 months after the last day of each reporting year of the MNE Group in the UAE.24 Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 stated the requirements for CbCR and includes guidance on preparation and submission of the CbCR and the CbCR notification. Taxable Persons should refer to Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020 for practical guidance on the preparation and filing of the CbCR and the CbCR notification.















































23 Article 2(1) of Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020.
24 Article 4(1) of Cabinet Resolution No. 44 of 2020.


7. Special Considerations for Specific Cases

This section provides guidance on special considerations that Taxable Persons may encounter in determining arm's length conditions for transactions such as financial transactions, intra-group services and intangibles, as well as other considerations such as Cost Contribution Arrangements ("CCAs"), Business Restructuring, PEs, and Group synergies. These specific areas are relevant from a UAE perspective, as a financial and investment hub. This section also highlights some considerations on audit and risk assessments.

The guidance in this section should take into consideration the guidance provided in Section 5 of this Guide on the application of the Arm's Length Principle.

7.1. Financial transactions25

7.1.1. Introduction

This section provides guidance on determining whether the conditions for certain types of financial transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons are consistent with the Arm's Length Principle. It should not be assumed that this section includes an exhaustive list of all financial transactions falling under the scope of the UAE Transfer Pricing rules. Taxable Persons are expected to conduct all financial Controlled Transactions in line with the Arm's Length Principle.

7.1.2. Treasury function

Generally, the goal of a treasury function in an MNE Group is to monitor and ensure financial stability. MNE Groups often set up dedicated treasury departments to manage and address the liquidity and financing needs of the Group. Treasury activities that are performed within MNE Groups are considered transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons and are subject to Transfer Pricing requirements. A corporate treasury department may perform the following activities for the benefit of the Group:
* Optimising liquidity across the MNE Group to ensure that the business has sufficient cash available and that it is in the right place when it is needed and in the right currency. In certain cases, a central treasury team may act as the contact point to centralise the external borrowing of the MNE Group. External funds would then be made available within the MNE Group through intra-group lending.
* Cash management of the excess liquidity of the MNE Group in order to earn an investment return and preserve capital as needed.



25 The following sections follow the guidance of Chapter X of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, with certain modifications to suit the domestic requirements.


* Managing financial risk through identification and analysis of, and responses to, the financial risks to which the business is exposed, including optimising the cost of capital to the advantage of the users of the MNE Group's treasury services.
* Raising debt (through bond issuances, bank loans or otherwise) and raising equity, and managing the relationship with the MNE Group's external bankers and with independent credit rating agencies.

When evaluating the Transfer Pricing issues related to treasury activities, it is important to accurately characterise and understand the actual transactions and determine what exactly the treasury functions that an entity is carrying out are before moving on to the pricing of the transactions.

 7.1.2.1. Determining the arm's length remuneration for the treasury function

Often, the central treasury function is performing routine services without bearing or managing significant risks. In such cases, Taxable Persons may refer to Section 7.2 for further details on remunerating centralised services. However, it is important to separately consider the arm's length remuneration for cases where the treasury function is acting as an in-house bank that is bearing and managing significant contingent liability risk that may arise from Related Party loans, cash pooling or guarantees (further discussed below).

7.1.3. Intra-group loans

Intra-group loans are often made by a central treasury entity, but they may also arise in a variety of other scenarios such as loans from a parent company to an operating subsidiary, loans between operating subsidiaries, or shareholder loans made by investors to portfolio companies. In the case of loans provided by a centralised treasury entity, such transactions should typically be priced separately from the routine services that may also be performed by that entity.

7.1.3.1. Determining the arm's length pricing for intra-group loans

Given the abundance of data on third-party loans, it is often the case that the CUP method can be applied to price intra-group loans. For loans, the CUP method typically involves the following steps:
* Analysis of the terms of the loan relating to factors that may impact the pricing including issue date, tenor, country of the borrower, currency, options (for example, pre-payment option), interest rate type (for example, fixed vs. floating), etc.
* Analysis of the borrower's credit rating to understand the credit risk borne by the lender in extending the loan (factoring in implicit support from the group as further discussed below).
* Search for third-party loans with a similar credit rating and terms.


* Comparability adjustments if necessary and the calculation of the arm's length range.

The below sub-sections provide more details on conducting a credit rating analysis as well as performing a search for third-party loans.

7.1.3.2. Credit ratings

Credit rating is an opinion about an entity's general creditworthiness and capacity to meet its financial obligations. The creditworthiness of the borrower is one of the main factors that independent lenders take into consideration when the terms of the borrowing are being determined. Credit ratings can serve as a useful measure of creditworthiness and, therefore, help to identify potential comparables or to apply economic models in the context of intra-group loans.

Credit ratings can be determined for the overall creditworthiness of an MNE or the Ultimate Parent Entity of the MNE Group or for a specific issuance of debt. Based on prevailing facts and circumstances and provided there is comparability between the third-party debt issuance and the Controlled Transaction, when both MNE credit rating and financial instrument credit ratings are available, the rating of the particular financial instrument would be more appropriate to be used to price the controlled financial transaction.

Determining credit ratings requires consideration of both quantitative (for example, financial information of the borrower) and qualitative factors (for example, the industry and jurisdiction in which the borrower operates). An approach often used to determine a credit rating for a specific MNE is to replicate the process used to determine the credit rating of the MNE Group by applying the quantitative and qualitative analysis of the individual characteristics of the MNE using publicly available financial tools or independent credit rating agencies' methodology. This approach also takes into consideration the enhanced creditworthiness that an MNE may receive for being part of an MNE Group.

The credit rating methodology used in publicly available financial tools may differ significantly from the credit rating methodologies applied by independent credit rating agencies to determine official credit ratings and the impact of any such differences should be carefully considered. For instance, publicly available tools generally use only a limited sample of quantitative data to determine a credit rating. Official credit ratings published by independent credit rating agencies are derived from more rigorous analysis that includes quantitative analysis of historical and forecast entity performance, as well as detailed qualitative analysis of, for instance, management's ability to manage the entity, industry specific features and the entity's market share in its industry. For these reasons, the reliability of credit rating results derived from the use of publicly available financial tools may be limited when compared to independent


credit rating agencies. However, this may be improved if the analysis can demonstrate consistency of ratings using publicly available tools with those provided by independent credit rating agencies. For example, when deciding whether and on what terms to lend, banks and other lenders may rely on independent credit ratings. A third- party lender may take into account independent credit ratings in terms of fixing the level of interest on a particular loan (a higher rating resulting in a lower interest rate). Credit ratings are just one area of consideration when deciding whether and on what terms to provide lending. The same considerations apply equally to Related Party loans.

In general, a lower credit rating will indicate a greater risk of default and be expected to result in higher borrowing costs.

It is important that the MNE Group appropriately documents the reasoning behind the credit rating used when pricing intra-group loans and other controlled financial transactions.

Example 16: Impact of credit rating on arm's length rates

Company Y is a company operating in Information Technology hardware industry in the UAE. Company Y obtained a 5-year term loan of AED 100 million from a Related Party lender. Company Y has a credit rating of BBB. A search was conducted to identify the conditions applied in similar third-party loans and the following factors were taken into consideration for the search:

Amount: 100 million
Tenor: 5 years Rank: Subordinated Currency: AED
Country of the borrower: UAE
Industry of the borrower: Information Technology hardware Credit rating of the borrower: BBB

Accordingly, the search identified similar loan agreements. The search revealed that the interest rate charged for comparable independent agreements is 5.5% per annum with the same or similar conditions as the tested transaction.

On this basis, it is concluded that 5.5% per annum is a reasonable arm's length interest rate applicable to the AED 100 million loan borrowed by Company Y.

Impact of different credit rating:

Keeping the above example with same factors except that the credit rating of the borrower (Company Y) is A instead of BBB. On a comparable search identified for




7.1.3.3. Implicit support

The effect of Group membership is relevant for informing the conditions under which a Taxable Person would have borrowed from an independent lender at arm's length. In particular:
1. The external funding policies and practices of group management will assist in informing the form and terms and conditions of the debt the MNE would have entered into with an independent lender, including the pricing (i.e. interest rate paid), and all economically relevant characteristics such as the type of loan, its term, currency, security, covenants, business strategies, and so forth.
2. The entity may receive support from the Group to meet its financial obligations in the event of the entity getting into financial difficulty.

In the context of intra-group loans, this incidental benefit that the entity is assumed to receive solely by virtue of its Group affiliation, is referred to as 'implicit support'. The effect of potential Group support on the credit rating of an entity and any effect on that entity's ability to borrow or the interest rate paid on those borrowings would not require any payment or comparability adjustment.

Implicit support from a Group may affect the credit rating of the borrower or the rating of any debt which it issues. The relative status and strategic importance of an entity within the Group may help determine what impact that potential group support has on the credit rating of a debt issuer. The weaker the linkage of an entity to the Group, the less it would receive support. In the event that there is evidence that an entity is not likely to receive support from its Group, it may be appropriate to consider the entity on the basis of its own stand-alone credit rating only.

7.1.3.4. Performing a search for third-party loans

The arm's length interest rate for an intra-group loan can be benchmarked against publicly available data for other borrowers/third-party loans with the same credit rating as well as sufficiently similar terms and conditions and other comparability factors of the loans. In addition to credit quality, in performing a search for third-party loans, it is important to also consider key factors that would impact the pricing of the loan, such as the following:


* The issue date of the loan is an important factor in the pricing of the loan as interest rates may fluctuate significantly over time based on various macro- economic factors.
* The currency of the debt can impact the risk of the loan due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Certain currencies are generally considered lower risk (for example, the US Dollar ("USD") or those currencies pegged to the USD such as the AED) while other currencies are higher risk (for example, currencies undergoing or at risk of a devaluation).
* The country of the borrower can impact the risk of a loan due to the unique macro-economic factors of that country (for example, recession or high inflation), risk of capital controls being imposed, or political instability that could threaten the capital markets of a country.
* The tenor of a loan will impact the pricing of the loan as it will impact how long the lender's capital will be tied into this transaction. Under normal economic conditions, loans with a longer duration would typically require a higher interest rate to incentivise the lender to extend the loan for such a time period.
* The options of a loan may grant certain privileges to the lender or the borrower. For example, a pre-payment option that would allow the borrower to pay off the loan before the maturity date could add a premium to the loan due to the potential benefit provided to the borrower (for example, if interest rates are lowered, it would benefit the borrower to pay off the loan early, thereby disadvantaging the lender due to loss of interest income).
* There are different types of rates that may be applied to loans including fixed rate loans and floating rate loans. The interest rate of a fixed rate loan remains 'fixed' (i.e. constant) throughout the duration of the loan, whereas a floating rate loan will fluctuate based on an underlying market benchmark (for example LIBOR or EIBOR), thereby impacting the riskiness of the loan.
* The industry of the borrower may impact the riskiness of the loan. For example, some industries are considered to be more stable in nature or may involve significant physical capital that could reduce the risk to the lender (for example manufacturing), whereas the opposite may be true for other industries (for example technology).

The above guidance is not meant to be exhaustive, and other factors may also need to be considered in pricing an intra-group loan.

7.1.3.5. Comparability adjustments for third-party loans

In certain cases, when conducting a loan benchmarking analysis, it may not be possible to match all of the key comparability criteria of an intra-group loan. For example, certain countries do not have robust capital markets and, therefore, may not offer a sufficient number of third-party loans issued in their country or currency. As a result, comparability adjustments may be required to enhance the comparability and reliability of the third-party loan.





7.1.4. Cash Pooling

Cash pooling is a financial management technique used by companies to optimise their cash flow and efficiently manage liquidity within a group of related entities or subsidiaries. It involves the consolidation of cash balances from multiple accounts into a central pool, typically held by a parent company or a designated treasury entity. This centralisation allows companies to have a more holistic view of their cash position and utilise surplus funds more effectively. If operated efficiently it can reduce reliance on external borrowings and associated costs.

There are two basic types of cash pooling arrangements:
* Physical pooling
* Notional pooling

In a physical pooling arrangement, the bank account balances of all of the pooling members are transferred daily to a single central bank account owned by the cash pool leader, with the aim of bringing the individual pool members balances to a target balance.

In a notional pooling arrangement, some of the benefits of combining credit and debit balances of several accounts are achieved without any physical transfer of balances between the participating members' bank accounts. However, the bank may require


cross-guarantees from the pool participants to enable the right to set off between accounts if necessary.

Because there is no physical transfer of funds in a notional pooling arrangement, the transactional costs of operating a notional cash pool are likely to be less than the transactional costs of operating a physical cash pool. The functions carried out by the bank would be accounted for in the charges or interest rate of the bank. The cash pool leader would perform minimal functions and have little value to add, since the functions are primarily performed by the bank, which would need to be reflected in the intra- group pricing.

7.1.4.1. Determining the arm's length remuneration in a cash pooling arrangement

Cash pooling arrangements involve transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons and hence it is important to ensure that the arrangement is conducted in line with the Arm's Length Principle.

The appropriate reward of a cash pool leader will depend on the facts and circumstances, the functions performed, the assets used and the risks assumed in facilitating a cash pooling arrangement. In general, a cash pool leader performs routine functions such as co-ordination, forecasting, reporting and basic analysis, and the expectation is that it will receive a commensurate renumeration as a routine service provider. In more complex cash pools, additional responsibilities could include risk management, interest optimisation and external banking relationships. These types of cash pools would expect to receive more than a routine reward. The level of remuneration for a cash pool function should be directly linked to the activities and services, assets used and risks assumed by the cash pool leader, and the appropriate Transfer Pricing method should be adopted after analysing the specific facts and circumstances.

The remuneration of the cash pool members will be calculated through the determination of the arm's length interest rates applicable to the debit and credit positions within the pool. This determination will allocate the synergy benefits arising from the cash pool arrangement amongst the pool members and it will generally be done once the remuneration of the cash pool leader has been calculated.

7.1.5. Hedging

An MNE Group may make use of hedging instruments by which risk is transferred within different group entities. The hedging activity may be centralised within the treasury entity. For example, currency risk of one entity may be managed via a currency hedge that is arranged by the treasury entity. As a result, whilst individual entities in the Group may not contractually enter into hedging arrangements in their


own name, their risk is nevertheless managed from the perspective of the Group as a whole.

Possible mechanisms by which an MNE Group may centralise the hedging of risk include:
* having a group treasury entity to perform the hedging function with the hedging contracts entered into in the name of the relevant operating companies or another MNE Group entity, and
* the MNE Group identifying and utilising natural hedges across the Group, in which case no formal hedging contracts are made.26

Where the centralised treasury function arranges a hedging contract in the name of the operating entity, that centralised treasury function can be seen as providing a service to the operating entity, for which it should receive compensation on arm's length terms in line with Section 5 of this Guide.

7.1.6. Financial guarantees

A financial guarantee is a legally binding commitment, which requires the guarantor to meet certain financial obligations in the event of a default by the party being guaranteed.

Under certain circumstances, a guarantee may be provided by an entity on a loan taken out by its Related Party from an unrelated lender. As a first step in determining the arm's length conditions of a guarantee arrangement, it is necessary to understand the economic benefit received by the borrower beyond the one that results from any potential implicit support mentioned above. In particular, an entity may receive a lower interest rate or access to more funding due to a Related Party guarantee. This is a result of having explicit support via a formalised guarantee.

7.1.6.1. Pricing a related party guarantee

Pricing a Related Party guarantee is typically done by estimating the benefit recognised by the guaranteed party in receiving a lower interest rate on its borrowings as a result of the guarantee. This approach is referred to as the "interest savings approach" and is done by calculating the difference in the guaranteed party's cost of borrowing without the guarantee as compared to its actual cost of borrowing with the guarantee. Estimating the cost of borrowing should be done in line with the guidance in this section on pricing intra-group loans as detailed above in Section 7.1.3.


26 A natural hedge is a risk management strategy used by businesses to offset or mitigate the impact of financial risks without resorting to explicit financial transactions or derivative instruments. The concept of a natural hedge is based on the idea that certain business activities or positions are naturally correlated with other activities or positions, leading to a self-balancing effect.



7.1.7. Captive insurance

A captive insurer is a function within a Group whose role is to insure certain risks of the Group. There are several benefits of captive insurance, including the ability to save on costs by retaining the risk within the Group and overcoming the challenge of obtaining insurance coverage for certain risks that are difficult to insure against in the open market. Captive insurers should operate genuine commercial enterprise if they are to be comparable to their independent counterparts. Indicators of commerciality may include the following:
* A diversification and pooling of risk in the captive insurer; and
* An improved capital position of the entities within the MNE Group as a result of diversification.

Furthermore, captive insurance arrangements should provide genuine insurance cover where the captive is assuming risk in exchange for premiums. Some indicators of genuine insurance activities include the following:
* The need to insure the risk;
* The captive insurer has the relevant skills and experience at its disposal to underwrite and manage the risk;
* There is a probability that the risk insured will materialise; and
* The captive insurer is comparable to independent insurers in terms of capital levels, operational framework and personnel.

7.1.7.1. Determination of Arm's Length Price of captive insurance

In pricing the captive insurance arrangement, it may be possible to apply the CUP method if there are internal comparables whereby the captive insurer has suitably similar business with unrelated customers, or if external comparables are available.

However, due to the unique nature of insurance arrangements, it is often difficult to apply the CUP method for captive insurance. Thus, it may be more reliable to evaluate the arm's length profitability of the captive insurance entity following the guidance in Section 5 of this Guide and applying the appropriate profit level indicator. Typically, such an analysis would take into account the profitability of claims and an appropriate return on capital.

Finally, an alternative method may be considered such as an actuarial analysis to determine an arm's length premium for insuring a particular risk. However, alternative methods come with unique challenges and should only be used where the five Transfer Pricing methods prescribed in Article 34(3) of the Corporate Tax Law are not suitable or inconclusive.



7.2. Intra-group services27

7.2.1. Introduction

This section focuses on services performed by one or more Group members that provide a benefit to other Group members and, whether such services are priced in accordance with the Arm's Length Principle.

In independent situations, a Person in need of a specific service may acquire that service from a third-party service provider or may perform the service itself in-house. In a similar way, a member of an MNE Group in need of a service may acquire it from independent service providers, from one of its Group members (i.e. intra-group) or perform the service itself.

Intra-group services often include those services that are typically available externally from third parties (such as legal and accounting services), in addition to those that are ordinarily performed internally (for example, by an enterprise itself, such as internal auditing or human resources). A service that qualifies as an intra-group service should be identified and remunerated in line with the Arm's Length Principle.

Further, the analysis of Transfer Pricing considerations for intra-group services, involves two main areas:
* whether intra-group services have in fact been provided; and
* whether the charge for the intra-group service is in accordance with the Arm's Length Principle.

7.2.2. Determining whether an intra-group service has been rendered

7.2.2.1. Benefits test

Under the Arm's Length Principle, the question whether an intra-group service has been rendered when an activity is performed for one or more Group members by another Group member should depend on whether the activity provides a respective Group member with economic or commercial value to enhance or maintain its business position. This can be determined by considering the following non-exhaustive factors:
* Whether the benefits have economic or commercial value such that an independent party in comparable circumstances would be willing to pay for the activity if performed by an independent party or would have undertaken to perform the activity for itself.

27 The following sections follow the guidance of Chapter VII of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. Certain modifications have been made to suit the domestic requirements and views of the FTA.


* Whether activities are performed for another party which receives, or reasonably expects to receive, benefits from such activities. If so, there may be a service provided even if the expected benefits do not eventually materialise.
* Whether objectively there is any commercial or practical necessity for the activities to be performed for the service recipient and an independent party would be willing to pay the service provider for the performance of those activities. If not, the benefit may be too remote or incidental.
* Whether the benefits are identifiable and capable of being valued. Otherwise, there is no service provided.

7.2.2.2. Shareholder activities

Sometimes in an MNE Group, an intra-group activity is performed relating to Group members even though those Group members do not need the activity (and would not be willing to pay for it were they independent of the Group). Such an activity may be one that a Group member (usually a parent entity or a regional holding company) performs solely because of its ownership interest in one or more other Group members (i.e. in its capacity as shareholder). It may also be required to perform such activities for regulatory compliance reasons, which would also indicate these activities are performed in the service provider's capacity as a shareholder.

These types of activities would not be considered to be intra-group services, and thus would not justify a charge to other Group members. Instead, the costs associated with this type of activity should be borne and allocated/retained at the level of the shareholder. This type of activity would be referred to as a "shareholder activity".

The following are indicative examples of costs that may be associated with shareholder activities and should not be charged:
* Costs relating to the juridical structure of the parent entity itself, such as shareholder meetings, issuing of shares in the parent entity, stock exchange listing of the parent entity and costs of the supervisory board.
* Costs relating to reporting requirements (including financial reporting and audit) of the parent entity including the consolidation of reports, the parent entity's audit of the subsidiary's accounts carried out exclusively in the interest of the parent entity, and the preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of the MNE Group.
* Costs of raising funds for the acquisition of its participations and costs relating to the parent entity's investor relations such as a communication strategy with shareholders of the parent entity, financial analysts, funds and other stakeholders in the parent entity.
* Costs relating to compliance of the parent entity with the relevant tax laws.
* Costs which are ancillary to the corporate governance of the MNE Group as a whole.


7.2.2.3. Treatment of pass-through cost / reimbursement of expenses

Sometimes, a Group company may arrange and pay for, on behalf of its Related Parties or Connected Persons, goods or services acquired from various vendors. These are generally called pass-through costs and are subject to reimbursement.

A question may arise as to whether the Group company arranging and paying for such goods or services should add a profit element to the amount paid to the vendors when recharging such costs to Related Parties or Connected Persons.

The Group service provider may pass on the costs from the vendors without a profit element or mark-up provided that:
* the acquired goods or services are requested by and for the benefit of the Related Parties or Connected Persons;
* the Group service provider is merely the paying agent and does not enhance the value of the acquired goods or services in the process whatsoever; and
* the cost of the acquired goods or services is the legal or contractual liability of the Related Parties or Connected Persons. This condition can be met even if the Group service provider is legally or contractually liable to pay for the acquired goods or services through an inter-company agreement.

The Group service provider should nonetheless consider charging an appropriate arm's length standard margin for its function in arranging and paying for the acquired goods or services on behalf of its Related Parties or Connected Persons. This should be based on (but not limited to) the aggregate costs of performing the function, and reflect the nature of its own services and extent of value-add generated for the Related Parties or Connected Persons.





7.2.2.4. Duplication

Duplication of services occurs when a service is provided to a Related Party that has already incurred costs for the same activity performed either by itself or on its behalf by an independent provider. There is no commercial or practical necessity for such duplicative service and thus, applying the benefit test, no service is considered provided. While generally this is the case, there could be situations where duplication of service may be allowed:
* Where the duplication of services is only temporary, for example, where an MNE Group is reorganising to centralise its management functions.
* Where the duplication is undertaken to reduce the risk of a wrong business decision. For example, this situation may arise if a company receives in-house accounting advice from a Related Party on an issue but chooses to get a second opinion to minimise the risk of being penalised for failing to comply with accounting standards, the costs of the in-house accounting advice received should be borne by the company.

Any consideration of possible duplication of services needs to identify the nature of the services in detail, and the reason why the company appears to be duplicating costs contrary to efficient practices. The fact that a company, for example, may be performing marketing activities in-house and also is charged for marketing services from a Group company does not in itself determine duplication. In this example there may be differences if the local entity is executing a local marketing strategy and the Group company is executing a global marketing strategy which may be indicative of different marketing activities which are not duplicative.

The FTA expects a clear rationale for suffering any duplicative costs as a result of intra-group services. As such, the Taxable Person should maintain sufficient documentation to support the Taxable Person's position in suffering costs for what may appear to be duplicative services.

7.2.2.5. Incidental benefits

In certain situations, an intra-group service relates only to some Group members but incidentally provides benefits to other Group members. For example, comprehensive group-wide studies on structural changes could be made to reorganise the Group, studies exploring the benefits of acquiring new lines of business, or to terminate a division. These activities may constitute intra-group services to the particular Group


members who commissioned these studies. These Group members may incorporate the findings of the studies to support or reject key business decisions directly impacting their competitive advantage in the marketplace. As a secondary consideration, these studies may be made available to other Group members for their reference. These types of studies may also provide useful information such as highlighting operational inefficiencies or product lines with growth potential. For the Group entities that have been provided with the studies for their reference, the useful information is an incidental benefit, and it would not be appropriate to raise a charge as a provision of intra-group services. This is because the activities producing the benefits were never intended for them, and would not be ones for which an independent party ordinarily would be willing to pay. However, each case must be determined according to its own facts and circumstances.

7.2.2.6. Intra-group services rising from several layers of management

An MNE Group can include several businesses and service lines. It can have several layers of management oversight and supervision for, for example, a global business leadership team overseeing business affairs globally at large, a regional business leadership team responsible for a particular region, and a local business leadership team responsible for a country. In other words, not all MNE Groups are vertically integrated and may instead have regional or divisional sub-groups with their own management and support structures.

The MNE Group may decide to perform an allocation of the cost of its global and regional business leadership teams across all the countries of operations.

While performing such an allocation, the MNE Group should apply the principles of the benefits test discussed in Section 7.2.2.1 of the guide.

In the event that a cost allocation does not pass the benefits test, such expenditure shall be adjusted while determining the Taxable Income of the Taxable Person in accordance with Article 20 of the Corporate Tax Law. Further a close evaluation should be undertaken to ensure that multiple layering in management does not result in duplication in allocation of cost to the members of the Group.

7.2.2.7. Centralised services

Other activities that may relate to the Group are those centralised in the parent entity, or in one or more Group service centres (such as a regional headquartered company) and made available to the Group (or multiple members thereof). The activities that are centralised depend on the kind of business and on the organisational structure of the Group. However, in general, they may comprise administrative services including but not limited to:
* planning and coordination;


* information technology and computer services;
* human resource services, recruitment and training;
* financial advice, financial services, budgetary control, accounting and audit;
* legal services;
* customer services; and
* other support functions such as distribution, procurement and marketing.

These types of activities ordinarily will be considered intra-group services because they are the type of activities that independent parties would be willing to pay for or perform in-house.

Intra-group services can take many forms and can provide varying levels of benefit, it is, therefore, necessary to explore the actual facts and circumstances of the arrangement in order to determine the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method.

For a particular service arrangement, the terms of the activity can be set out in a detailed contract with the party commissioning the service. The activity may involve highly skilled personnel and vary considerably both in its nature and in its importance to the success of the activity. The actual arrangements can take a variety of forms from the undertaking of detailed programmes laid down by the principal party, extending to agreements where the research company has discretion to work within broadly defined parameters. Such an arrangement would constitute the rendering of a valuable/chargeable service.

A chargeable service may be provided even where there is no explicit agreement in place. For example, an MNE Group decides to centralise its global finance function. It will provide services which may include maintaining accounting records, preparing financial statements based on accounting records, reconciling financial data, preparing tax returns and computations and reclaim forms, performing operational and financial internal audits, and performing other services of a similar nature. The fact that a written service agreement does not exist between the service provider and a Group member does not automatically mean a service has not been provided or received. The conduct of the parties should be reviewed together with the need for the service and whether an operational burden which the Group member would have paid for or undertaken to address in-house has been removed through centralisation.

An obligation to pay for an intra-group service arises only where the benefits test is satisfied, which is determined by evaluating whether independent parties in comparable circumstances would have been willing to pay for the activity if performed by an independent service provider or would have performed the activity in-house.




Example 20: Treatment of costs related to third-party service providers

Company B is a company that is part of an MNE Group headquartered in country A. It is listed on a Recognised Stock Exchange in country A. It has a wholly owned subsidiary Company Y in UAE.

Company B has certain financial reporting obligations in country A for, for example, preparation of consolidated financial statements. Generally, Company B hires an external third-party service provider to provide such services. However, as part of changes in the Group's internal policy, Company B asks Company Y to provide the services instead.

In this case, the service provided by Company Y should be subject to the benefits test. The benefits test would take into account, among other factors, whether Company Y provides any economic or commercial value to enhance the business position of Company B.

This can be determined by considering whether Persons who were not Related Parties or Connected Persons would be willing to pay for the activity if performed by an independent third party or performed in-house. If the activity is not one for which Persons who were not Related Parties or Connected Persons would have been willing to pay for, the activity ordinarily should not pass the benefits test. As can be observed, the analysis will depend on the actual facts and circumstances.

In this case it is assumed that Company B would have continued to hire an external third-party service provider to provide the services had the Group's internal policy not changed. Based on this fact, it can be reasonably concluded that the benefits




7.2.3. Determining the arm's length charge for intra-group services

7.2.3.1. Comparability analysis

The determination of the Arm's Length Price in relation to intra-group services should be considered both from the perspective of the service provider and the service recipient. In this respect, the comparability analysis should analyse relevant considerations such as the value of the service to the recipient and how much a comparable independent enterprise would be prepared to pay for that service in comparable circumstances, as well as the costs to the service provider.

7.2.3.2. Selection of the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method

The method to be used to determine arm's length charge for intra-group services should be determined according to the guidance in Section 5 of this guide.

The Comparable Uncontrolled Price (CUP) method or a cost-based method (Cost Plus Method or Transactional Net Margin Method using a cost-based profit level indicator) are commonly used for pricing intra-group services. A CUP method is likely to be the most appropriate method where there is a comparable service provided between independent enterprises, or by the Related Party providing the services to an independent enterprise in comparable circumstances.

7.2.3.3. Direct and indirect charge methods

An MNE Group may be able to adopt direct charging arrangements, particularly where services similar to those rendered to Related Parties or Connected Persons are also rendered to independent parties. If specific services are provided not only to Related Parties or Connected Persons but also to independent parties in a comparable manner and as a significant part of its business, it could be presumed that the MNE has the ability to demonstrate a separate basis for the charge (for example, by recording the work done, the fee basis, or costs expended in fulfilling its third-party contracts). Thus, MNEs in such cases are encouraged to use the direct-charge method in relation to their intra-group transactions with their Related Parties.

However, this approach may not always be appropriate if, for example, the services to independent parties are merely occasional or marginal. The direct charge method may pose challenges in cases where there is a centralised management services activity performed for the benefit of multiple entities within a Group at the same time. MNE Groups may find they have to resort to cost allocation and apportionment methods,


which often necessitate some degree of estimation or approximation as a basis for calculating an arm's length adjustment. Where cost allocation and apportionment methods are used, these are considered indirect charge methods.

When using the indirect method, the Taxable Person needs to take into account the commercial features of the individual case (for example, whether the allocation key is reasonable under the circumstances). Further, the approach should contain safeguards against manipulation, follow sound accounting principles, and be capable of producing charges or allocations of costs that are linked to the actual or reasonably expected benefits to the recipient of the service.

The indirect charge method is generally not appropriate for specific services that form a main Business Activity of the enterprise or services that are provided not only to Related Parties or Connected Persons but also to independent parties.

7.2.3.4. Determination of the cost base

Where a cost-based method is determined to be the most appropriate method to the circumstances of the case, the relevant cost base should be determined. A summary of the approach for determining the cost base for centralised services is as follows:
1. The initial step is to calculate, on an annual basis, a pool of all costs incurred by all members of the Group in performing each category of the centralised intra-group services. The costs to be pooled are the direct and indirect costs of rendering the service as well as an appropriate level of operating expenses determined using an acceptable allocation key where relevant.
2. Secondly, the cost pool should exclude costs that are attributable to an in-house activity that benefits solely the company performing the activity (including shareholder activities performed by the shareholding company).
3. Thirdly, the MNE Group should identify and remove from the pooled costs any costs that are attributable to services performed by one Group member solely on behalf of one other Group member (as this would be charged directly to the specific beneficiary).
4. Lastly, the MNE Group needs to allocate the remaining pool of costs that is attributable to the services which are provided to multiple members of the MNE Group among benefitting members of the MNE Group. More than one allocation key can be applied for this purpose based on the nature of the service and the fact that the allocation key should reasonably be linked to the expected benefit, for example, the allocation key for services related to people might employ the share of total headcount and information technology services might employ the share of total users. The same allocation key or keys must be used on a consistent basis for all allocations of costs relating to the same category of services.


7.2.3.5. Profit mark-up

In determining the arm's length charge, the service provider should apply a mark-up to all costs that are not pass-through in nature.28 The mark-up should be determined using comparable data. However, to reduce the compliance burden on Taxable Persons, this Guide adopt the simplified approach provided under Chapter VII of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines, whereby certain low value-adding intra-group services may be charged out at a cost-plus 5% mark-up without the need for a detailed benchmarking analysis. In general, low value-adding intra-group services should meet the following criteria:
* the services are of a supportive nature;
* they are not part of the core business of the MNE Group (i.e. not creating the profit- earning activities or contributing to economically significant activities of the MNE Group);
* they do not require the use of unique and valuable intangibles and do not lead to the creation of unique and valuable intangibles; and
* the services do not involve the assumption or control of substantial or significant risk by the service provider and do not give rise to the creation of significant risk for the service provider.
* accordingly, the following activities would not qualify for the safe harbour outlined in this section:
o services constituting the core business of the MNE Group;
o research and development services;
o manufacturing and production services;
o purchasing activities relating to raw materials or other materials that are used in the manufacturing or production process;
o sales, marketing and distribution activities;
o financial transactions;
o extraction, exploration, or processing of natural resources;
o insurance and reinsurance; and
o services of corporate senior management.

Below is an illustrative example of services that may be considered low value adding and thus qualify for the safe harbour.


28 Pass-through costs are expenses that are incurred on behalf of service recipients. The exact amount of the cost is then then passed on to the service recipients without any markup or profit margin


The Group has its regional headquarters based in the UAE. The regional headquarters employs teams that support the Group entities operating in the region. The two services provided by the regional headquarters are as follows:
* Technical services: This service includes guidance on testing and inspection techniques to be applied when servicing the third-party customers.
* Support services: This includes keeping books and records, processing invoices, recruitment and onboarding and IT.

In establishing its Transfer Pricing policy, the regional headquarters assessed whether the above services would qualify as low value adding intragroup services as follows:
Service
Conclusion
Transfer Pricing Policy


Technical services
This service is related to the core business activities of the entities and contributes economic value to the Group. Accordingly, it is not considered low value adding in nature and the safe harbour cannot be used
as a Transfer Pricing policy.
A detailed comparability analysis showed that an appropriate arm's length mark-up on cost to be applied for similar services would fall in the
range of 8% -12%.

Support services
This service is supportive in nature and does not result in direct revenue generation. Accordingly, the service can be considered low value in nature
and the safe harbour may be applied.

5% mark-up on cost (in line with the safe harbour)

The initial step in applying a simplified approach to low value adding services is to categorise, calculate and pool all costs associated with the low value adding services. These costs should then be allocated amongst group members based on appropriate allocation keys. The appropriate allocation key will depend on the nature of the service. For example, IT services may be allocated on number of users or employee related costs may be allocated based on headcount. The pragmatic intent of using a safe harbour means a balance needs to be struck between theoretical sophistication and practical administration. The final step is to apply a profit mark-up, in the case of the low value adding services safe harbour the mark up shall be 5%.

Taxpayers should maintain sufficient documentation to support their conclusions that services included in the simplified approach are in fact low value adding in nature.

7.2.4. Documentation

The Taxable Person is expected to prepare and maintain supporting documentation to be provided to the FTA on request. The documentation should include a clear explanation of the intra-group services provided, the identity of the beneficiaries, a


summary of the benefits received, the approach adopted to determine and calculate the charges together with the justification for the choice of allocation key(s) used, an explanation of how the underlying costs relate to the service provided, and the support for any mark-up applied. This should form part of the Transfer Pricing documentation for each relevant Tax Period.

7.3. Intangibles29

7.3.1. Introduction

Questions regarding intangibles are perhaps the most complex in Transfer Pricing. This complexity is due to the unique characteristics of intangibles, the ease of transfer via a contractual arrangement, the difficulty in finding comparable arrangements due to their unique nature and the importance of intangibles in generating revenues for businesses.

The analysis of cases involving the use or transfer of intangibles should begin with a thorough identification of the commercial or financial relations between the Related Parties or Connected Persons and the conditions and economically relevant circumstances attached to those relations in order to accurately characterise the transaction involving the intangibles. It is especially important to understand the MNE's global business and the manner in which intangibles are used by the MNE to add or create value across the entire supply chain.

Such an analysis should include an examination of the actual conduct of the parties based on the functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed, including control of important functions and economically significant risks.

7.3.2. Identifying intangibles (Types of intangibles)

Intangibles are defined as something that is not a physical asset or a financial asset, which is capable of being owned or controlled for use in commercial activities, and whose use or transfer would be compensated had it occurred in a transaction between independent parties in comparable circumstances. Thus, there are various categories of assets under the concept of intangibles.

Distinctions can be made between trade intangibles and marketing intangibles, between routine and non-routine intangibles, and between other classes of intangibles.




29 The following sections follow the guidance of Chapter VI of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. Certain modifications have been made to suit the domestic requirements and views of the FTA.


Some intangibles are considered to be "unique and valuable" intangibles, being classified as "hard-to-value". Such intangibles are defined as those that (i) are not comparable to intangibles used by or available to parties in potentially comparable transactions, and (ii) whose use in business operations (for example, manufacturing, provision of services, marketing, sales, or administration) is expected to yield greater future economic benefits than would be expected in the absence of the intangible.

The approach to determine the arm's length conditions and price of intangibles is the same. The FTA expects the Transfer Pricing analysis to identify the relevant intangibles and determine the arm's length conditions as set out in this Guide.

For illustrative purposes, below are some general examples of items that, under specific circumstances, may be considered intangibles. This list should not be used as a substitute for a detailed analysis and is not intended to be exhaustive.

Intangibles for Transfer Pricing purposes
? Patents
? Know-how and trade secrets
? Trademarks, trade names and brands
? Rights under contracts and government license
? Licenses and similar limited rights in intangibles
Not	intangibles	for	Transfer Pricing purposes
? Group synergies
? Market specific characteristics
? Assembled workforce


7.3.3. Applying the Arm's Length Principle with respect to intangibles

In Transfer Pricing cases involving intangibles, it is crucial to determine the entity or entities within an MNE Group that are entitled to share in the returns derived from exploiting the intangibles. The identification and examination of intangibles are relevant in two general types of transactions:

* Transactions involving the transfer of intangibles or rights in intangibles.
* Transactions involving the use of intangibles in connection with the sale of goods or the provision of services.

The next step is to identify which entity or entities within the Group should ultimately bear the costs, investments and other burdens associated with the Development, Enhancement, Maintenance, Protection and Exploitation ("DEMPE") of intangibles. Although the legal owner of an intangible may receive the proceeds from exploitation of the intangible, other members of the MNE Group may have performed functions, used assets, or assumed risks that are expected to contribute to the value of the intangible. Members of the MNE Group performing such functions, using such assets,


and assuming such risks must be compensated for their contributions under the Arm's Length Principle. The ultimate allocation of costs and other burdens related to intangibles among members of the MNE Group, is accomplished by compensating members of the MNE Group for functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed in the DEMPE of the intangibles.

The framework for analysing transactions involving intangibles between Related Parties or Connected Persons requires taking the following steps:
1. Identify the intangibles used or transferred.
2. Identify the full contractual arrangements, with special emphasis on determining legal ownership of intangibles based on the terms and conditions of legal arrangements, including relevant registrations, license agreements, other relevant contracts, and other indicators of legal ownership, and the contractual rights and obligations, including contractual assumption of risks in the relations between the Related Parties or Connected Persons.
3. Identify the parties performing functions, using assets, and managing risks related to DEMPE of the intangibles by means of the Functional Analysis, in order to determine the economic ownership of the intangibles.
4. Confirm the consistency between the terms of the relevant contractual arrangements and the conduct of the parties, and determine whether the party assuming economically significant risks actually controls the risks in practice, and has the financial capacity to assume the risks relating to the DEMPE of the intangibles.
5. Characterise the actual Controlled Transactions related to the DEMPE of the intangibles in light of the legal ownership of the intangibles, the other relevant contractual relations under relevant registrations and contracts, and the conduct of the parties, including their relevant contributions of functions, assets and risks.
6. Determine the Arm's Length Price for these transactions consistent with each party's contributions of functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed.

First: Identify the intangible used or transferred

In any Transfer Pricing analysis involving intangibles, it is essential to accurately identify the specific intangible used in Controlled Transactions such as trademarks, licenses etc. It is important to note that the analysis should not solely rely on accounting or legal definitions. Instead, the focus should be on determining the conditions that would be agreed upon between independent parties for a comparable transaction given that the legal definitions and ownership, as well as the accounting treatment may differ from the economic ownership and actual conditions of the transaction that form the basis of the Transfer Pricing analysis.


Second: Identify the full contractual arrangements

Next, it is important to examine the contractual arrangements and legal rights related to the intangible. The terms of a transaction can be found in written contracts, public records such as patent or trademark registrations, or in correspondence and other communications among the parties involved. Contracts define the roles, responsibilities, and rights of the parties in relation to intangibles. If there are no written terms or if the facts of the case and the actions of the parties differ from the written terms, the actual transaction must be inferred from the established facts and the conduct of the parties.

While determining legal ownership and contractual arrangements is an important first step in the analysis, for Transfer Pricing purposes, legal ownership of intangibles, by itself, does not confer any right ultimately to retain returns derived by the MNE Group from exploiting the intangible. The return ultimately retained by or attributed to the legal owner depends upon the functions it performs, the assets it uses, and the risks it assumes, and upon the contributions made by other MNE Group members through their functions performed, assets used, and risks assumed.

For example, in the case of an internally developed intangible, if the legal owner performs no relevant functions, uses no relevant assets, and assumes no relevant risks, but acts solely as a title holding entity, the legal owner will not ultimately be entitled to any portion of the return derived by the MNE Group from the exploitation of the intangible other than arm's length compensation, if any, for holding title.

Third: Identify the parties performing functions, using assets or managing (i.e. controlling) risks in relation to the DEMPE of the intangible

As previously stated, the determination that a specific member of the Group is the legal owner of intangible assets is not, by itself, conclusive that the legal owner is automatically entitled to any income generated by the business. Hence, a functional analysis is essential to determine which member(s) perform and control DEMPE functions, provide funding and assets, and assume associated risks.

The legal owner need not physically perform all the DEMPE functions related to an intangible. While some functions could be outsourced, overall control of these functions should be with the legal owner. In cases where such outsourcing occurs to Related Parties or Connected Persons, the legal owner of the intangible should compensate the entity performing the outsourced services functions on an arm's length basis.

The relative value of contributions to DEMPE of intangibles varies based on each specific case. MNE Group members with more significant contributions should receive proportionate remuneration including compensation for using the assets.



The level of risk assumed determines the reward that an MNE member is entitled to receive. It is important that the Group member(s) asserting entitlement to returns from assuming risk actually bear responsibility for the actions that need to be taken and the costs that may be incurred if the relevant risk materialises. Specific risks that may be significant in a Functional Analysis related to intangibles, include, but are not limited to:
* Risks on the development of intangibles;
* Infringement risk;
* Product liability risk;
* Exploitation risks.

The occurrence and significance of these risks will depend on the specific facts and circumstances involved.

Fourth: Confirm consistency between the contractual arrangements and the conduct of the parties and determine whether the parties assuming the economically significant risks also control the risk in relation to the DEMPE of the intangible

Based on the outcome of Steps 1 to 3, an analysis should be undertaken to confirm whether there is consistency between the contractual agreements and the conduct of the parties involved in the transaction. If the contractual arrangements and conduct are consistent, the contractual agreements can serve as the basis for determining the Controlled Transactions. However, if there is a disparity between the contractual arrangements and the conduct of the Related Parties or Connected Persons, the conduct of the Related Parties or Connected Persons should be considered as the basis for determining the actual Controlled Transactions and their nature. This determination should be supported by conducting a thorough and detailed Functional Analysis, with a specific focus on the intangible aspects.

Fifth: Characterise the actual Controlled Transactions related to the DEMPE of the intangibles in light of the legal ownership of the intangibles, the other relevant contractual relations under relevant registrations and contracts, and the conduct of the parties, including their relevant contributions of functions, assets and risks

The clear determination of the actual Controlled Transactions should follow from the steps outlined above and the framework provided in section 5 of this guide. Once the actual Controlled Transactions have been determined, the pricing can be analysed.

Sixth: Determine the Arm's Length Price for the use or transfer of intangibles

After identifying the relevant transactions involving intangibles, specifically identifying the intangibles involved in those transactions, and identifying which entity or entities legally own the intangibles as well as those that contribute to the value of the


intangibles, it should be possible to identify arm's length conditions for the relevant transactions.

When performing a comparability analysis to a transaction involving intangibles, the options realistically available to each of the parties to the transaction must be considered. While it is important to consider the perspectives of both parties to the transaction, the specific business circumstances of one of the parties should not be used to dictate an outcome contrary to the realistically available options of the other party.

It should also be borne in mind that intangibles often have unique characteristics, and as a result have the potential for generating returns and creating future benefits that could differ widely. In conducting a comparability analysis with regard to a transfer of intangibles, it is therefore essential to consider the unique features of the intangibles.

In selecting the most appropriate Transfer Pricing method in a case involving the use or transfer of intangibles or rights in intangibles, attention should be given to (i) the nature of the relevant intangibles, (ii) the difficulty of identifying Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions and intangibles in many, if not most, cases, and (iii) the difficulty of applying certain Transfer Pricing methods in the case of intangibles.

In the case of a transfer of an intangible or rights in an intangible that provides the business with a unique competitive advantage in the market, purportedly comparable intangibles or transactions should be carefully scrutinised. It is critical to assess whether potential comparables in fact exhibit similar profit potential.

Depending on the specific facts, any of the five prescribed Transfer Pricing methods described in section 5 of this guide might constitute the most appropriate method to the circumstances of the case where the transaction involves a controlled transfer of one or more intangibles. If none of the approved methods can be reliably applied, the use of other alternative methods may also be considered, pursuant to Article 34(4) of the Corporate Tax Law (for example, market appraisal or valuation especially in cases where there is a unique intangible or one-off transaction of an intangible).

The following example incorporates the above steps.




The intangible is expected to take 5 years of development before it can be commercially exploited. The intangible is expected to have a valuable life of 5 years. Under the development agreement between Company X and Company Y, Company Y will perform and control all activities related to the DEMPE of the IP asset. Company X will provide all funding related to development of the IP and will become the legal owner of the IP.

Once developed, Company Y will license the asset from Company X and pay a license fee based on comparable market data. During the development phase of the IP asset the contractual terms are adhered to, and no inconsistencies are observed between the Related Parties actions and the contractual terms.

A Functional Analysis finds that although Company X is the legal owner and entitled to book revenues generated from the IP asset, its contribution does not go beyond the provision of funding for the development of the intangible. The analysis shows that Company X contractually assumes the financial risk and has the capacity to assume that risk. Beyond that, Company Y exercises control over the risk, manages the risk, provides the expertise and through its experience and track record significantly de-risks the project for Company X.

Therefore, taking the above into account it is determined that the arm's length profit on Company X's financial contribution should be a risk adjusted return to capital. The remainder of the profits generated from the use of the IP asset should be recognised by Company Y. The arrangement going forward should be formalised in a legally binding agreement and documentation to support the transaction should be maintained.


7.4. Cost Contribution Arrangements30

7.4.1. Introduction

Cost Contribution Arrangements (CCAs) are contractual agreements entered into by Related Parties or Connected Persons within an MNE Group. A CCA is neither a distinct legal entity nor a fixed business location for all participants.

The objective of CCAs is to share the contributions and risks of joint projects involving the development, production, or acquisition of intangible or tangible assets, or the performance of services, with the anticipated benefits derived from their contributions shared equitably among the parties. In certain situations, one or more members of an MNE Group may perform services that benefit some or all of the other Group members, either immediately (for example, centralised administrative services) or in the future (for example, by contributing to the development of intangibles).

For instance, Company A and Company B may enter into a CCA to develop a new product collaboratively, with Company A contributing design expertise and Company B manufacturing expertise. By sharing the costs and risks of the project, both businesses can benefit from the resultant product without bearing the entire development and production burden.

7.4.2. Types of Cost Contribution Arrangements

Commonly encountered CCAs fall into two categories: those established for the collaborative development, production or acquisition of intangible or tangible assets ("development CCAs"); and those established for the acquisition of services ("services CCA's").

Although each particular CCA should be considered on its own facts and circumstances, key differences between these two types of CCAs will generally be that development CCAs are expected to create ongoing, future benefits for participants, while services CCAs will create current benefits only.

Development CCAs, in particular with respect to intangibles, often involve significant risks associated with what may be uncertain and distant benefits, while services CCAs often offer more certain and less risky benefits. These distinctions are useful because the complexity of development CCAs may require more refined guidance, particularly on the valuation of contributions, than may be required for services CCAs.




30 The following sections follow the guidance of Chapter VIII of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. Certain modifications have been made to suit the domestic requirements and views of the FTA.


Under a development CCA, each participant has an entitlement to rights in the developed intangible(s) or tangible asset(s). In relation to intangibles, such rights often take the form of separate rights to exploit the intangible in a specific geographic location or for a particular application. The separate rights obtained may comprise legal ownership; alternatively, it may be that only one of the participants is the legal owner of the property, while the other participants have certain rights to use or exploit the property. In cases where a participant has such rights in any property developed by the CCA, there is no need for a royalty payment or other additional consideration for the use of the developed property consistent with the interest to which the participant is entitled under the CCA (however, the participant's contributions may need to be adjusted if they are not proportionate to their expected benefits as per the guidance below). An example of this would be a Group of pharmaceutical companies engaging in a CCA to share the costs and risks associated with developing a new drug. Each participant contributes to the drug's development costs proportionally to their anticipated benefits from the commercialisation of the drug.

Service sharing arrangements are established for sharing in the costs and benefits of intercompany services. In this type of CCA, the participants share the costs and risks of acquiring services that generate mutual benefits. An example of this would include a Group of companies in the same industry, for instance, that may engage in a CCA to share the costs and risks associated with developing a common information technology system. Each participant contributes to the costs of providing the services to their expected benefits from the services.

While each CCA should be evaluated based on its own facts and circumstances, some benefits of a CCA activity will be known in advance, whereas other benefits, for example, the outcome of R&D activities, will be uncertain. Some types of CCA activities will produce benefits in the short term, while others will have a longer timeframe or may not be successful at all. Nevertheless, in a CCA, there is always an expected benefit that each participant seeks from its contribution, including the attendant rights to have the CCA properly administered. Each participant's interest in the results of the CCA activity should be established from the outset, even where the interest is interlinked with that of other participants (for example, because legal ownership of a developed intangible property is vested in only one of them but all of them have effective ownership control).

7.4.3. Applying	the	Arm's	Length	Principle	to	a	Cost	Contribution Arrangement

The Arm's Length Principle requires that CCA participants' contributions match what independent enterprises would have agreed to contribute under comparable circumstances given their proportionate share of the total anticipated benefits they reasonably expect to derive from the arrangement. Contributions to a CCA differ from previous intra-group transfers of property or services because participants expect


mutual and proportionate benefit from pooling resources and abilities. Participants also agree to share the risks and benefits of accomplishing CCA results.

Accordingly, the key step in applying the Arm's Length Principle in a CCA is to calculate the value of each participant's contribution to the joint activity, and finally to determine whether the allocation of CCA contributions (as adjusted for any balancing payments made among participants) align with their respective share of expected benefits. It should be recognised that these determinations are likely to bear a degree of uncertainty, particularly in relation to development CCAs.

In addition, particularly for the development of CCAs, the participants agree to share the upside and downside consequences of risks associated with achieving the anticipated CCA outcomes. As a result, there is a distinction between the intra-group licensing of an intangible where the licensor has borne the development risk on its own and expects compensation through the licensing fees it will receive once the intangible has been fully developed, and a development CCA in which all parties make contributions and share in the consequences of risks materialising in relation to the development of the intangible and decide that each of them, through those contributions, acquires a right in the intangible.

The expectation of mutual and proportionate benefit is fundamental to the acceptance by independent enterprises of an arrangement for sharing the consequences of risks materialising and pooling resources and skills. To apply the Arm's Length Principle to a CCA, the steps below should be followed:

Step 1: Determining participants

To be considered a participant in a CCA, one must have a reasonable expectation of benefiting from the objectives of the CCA activity itself, not just from performing part or all of the subject activity. Participants must be assigned an interest or rights in the intangibles, tangible assets, or services that are the focus of the CCA and have a reasonable expectation of benefiting from that interest or rights. In addition, participants must exercise control over the specific risks they undertake under the CCA and have the financial capacity to assume these risks. In accordance with the principles of prudent business management, the extent of capability and control required will be determined by the level of risk associated with the arrangement. While participants are permitted to outsource certain functions related to the subject activity to a non-participant entity, they must individually satisfy the requirements for exercising control over the specific risks they assume under the CCA.

Step 2: Determining the arm's length participation value

The next step is to determine the value of each participant's contributions to the arrangement. For service CCAs, contributions primarily consist of the performance of


services. For development CCAs, contributions typically include the performance of development activities and additional contributions relevant to development CCA such as pre-existing tangible assets or intangibles. All contributions of current or pre- existing value must be identified and accounted for appropriately in accordance with the Arm's Length Principle.

The value of each participant's contribution should be consistent with the value that independent business in comparable circumstances would have assigned to that contribution. Contributions should be measured at value, and while it may be easy to administer for Taxable Persons to pay current contributions at cost, using cost as a measure for current contributions is unlikely to provide a reliable basis for determining the value of relative contributions for development CCAs. All contributions made by participants to the arrangement should be recognised, including those made at the inception of the CCA and those made on an ongoing basis during the term of the CCA. Contributions to be considered include property or services that are used solely in the CCA activity, as well as property or services that are used partly in the CCA activity and partly in the participant's separate Business Activities. Contributions involving shared property or services should be determined in a commercially justifiable way, and adjustments may be necessary to achieve consistency when different jurisdictions are involved.

7.4.4. CCA entry, withdrawal and termination

Changes in a CCA membership will typically result in a re-evaluation of the proportionate shares of participants contributions and anticipated benefits. When a new entity becomes a participant in an existing CCA, it may acquire an interest in the results of prior CCA activity, such as completed or work in progress intangibles or tangible assets.

In such circumstances, the previous participants transfer part of their respective interests in the outcomes of the prior CCA activity to the new entrant. This transfer of intangibles or tangible assets must be compensated based on arm's length value for the transferred interest under the Arm's Length Principle. This compensation is referred to as a "buy-in payment."

The CCA must be in writing and must specify the activities to be carried out, the contributions to be made by each participant, and the method for determining each participant's share of the benefits.

A participant who leaves a CCA may transfer its interest in the results of past CCA activity (including work in progress) to the remaining participants. Such a transfer must be compensated according to the Arm's Length Principle. Such compensation is referred to as "buy-out payment". A participant may withdraw from a CCA if the


agreement permits it, or if all other participants consent to it. The withdrawal must be in writing and must include the date it becomes effective.

A participant may withdraw from a CCA if the activity is no longer anticipated to generate benefits. Participants may also terminate the CCA by mutual consent. The notice of termination must be in writing and must specify the termination's effective date.

The Arm's Length Principle requires that, when a CCA terminates, each participant retains an interest in the results, if any, of the CCA activity commensurate with their proportionate share of contributions to the CCA throughout its term (adjusted by any balancing payments actually made, including those made as a result of the termination), or is appropriately compensated for any transfer of that interest to other participants.

7.4.5. Balancing payments

Balancing payments are payments made between participants in a CCA to ensure that each participant receives its proportionate share of the benefits from the activity.

A compensating payment may be required if a participant's contributions are not proportional to their anticipated benefits and is made by participants that have received a greater share of the benefits than their contributions would warrant. However, it can also be paid to participants whose contributions are greater than the benefits received.

A balancing payment may also be required if it is determined that the value of the participant's proportionate contribution was incorrectly determined at the time it was made, or when the CCA expected benefits were incorrectly assessed. In circumstances where the contribution of a participant is not proportionate to the expected benefit and a balancing payment is not made, then the FTA has the right to adjust the profit of the Taxable Person to accurately reflect the arm's length outcome of the arrangement.

Overall, balancing payments are an essential aspect of CCAs as they ensure that each participant receives an appropriate proportionate share of the benefits from the activity. Taxable Persons would benefit from formalising arrangements through clear legal contracts and maintain sufficient documentation to support the arm's length outcome of the arrangement.


7.5. Business Restructuring31

7.5.1. Introduction

Business Restructuring refers to the reorganisation of the commercial or financial relations between Related Parties or Connected Persons, including the termination or substantial renegotiation of existing arrangements. Relationships with third parties (for example, suppliers, subcontractors, customers) may also be a reason for the restructuring or be affected by it. In addition, these transactions may involve the transfer of the ownership and management of intangible property rights such as patents, trademarks, brand names, etc.

Business Restructurings may often involve the centralisation of intangibles, risks, or functions with the profit potential attached to them. They may consist of:
* Conversion of full-fledged distributors (enterprises with a relatively higher level of functions and risks) into limited-risk distributors, marketers, sales agents, or commissionaires (enterprises with a relatively low level of functions and risks) for a foreign Related Party that may operate as the principal, or vice versa.
* Conversion of full-fledged manufacturers (relatively higher level of functions and risks) into contract manufacturers or toll manufacturers (relatively lower level of functions and risks) for a foreign Related Party that may operate as the principal, or vice versa.
* Transfers of intangibles or rights in intangibles to a central entity (for example, a so-called "IP company") within the Group.
* The concentration of functions in a regional or central entity, with a corresponding reduction in scope or scale of functions carried out locally; examples may include procurement, sales support, supply chain logistics.

Groups may restructure their business for various reasons which may include the following:
* to maximise synergies and economies of scale;
* to streamline the management of business lines and to improve the efficiency of the supply chain;
* to take advantage of the development of web-based technologies that have facilitated the emergence of global organisations; and
* to preserve profitability or limit losses (for example, in the event of over-capacity or in an economic downturn).

Taxable Persons are generally free to arrange their business operations as they see fit, as long as they ensure the pricing arrangements are in line with the Arm's Length Principle. The fact that a Business Restructuring may be motivated by sound

31 The following sections follow the guidance of Chapter IX of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. Certain modifications have been made to suit the domestic requirements and views of the FTA.


commercial reasons at the level of the Group does not mean that it is arm's length from the perspectives of each of the restructured Group members.

Business Restructurings are typically accompanied by a reallocation of profit potential among the members of the MNE Group, either immediately after the restructuring or over a period of time. One major objective of this section is to discuss the extent to which such a reallocation of profit potential is consistent with the Arm's Length Principle and more generally how the Arm's Length Principle applies to Business Restructurings.

7.5.2. Arm's Length compensation for the restructuring itself

7.5.2.1. Understanding Business Restructuring

The application of the Arm's Length Principle to a Business Restructuring must start, as for any Controlled Transaction, with the identification of:
* the commercial or financial relations between the Related Parties or Connected Persons involved in the Business Restructuring; and
* the conditions and economically relevant circumstances in relation to those relations.

Based on these, the Controlled Transactions comprising the Business Restructuring can be properly defined.

In addition, important aspects of identifying the commercial or financial relations relevant to determining the arm's length conditions of Business Restructuring need to be analysed:
1. determination of the Controlled Transactions comprising the Business Restructuring and the relevant functions, assets and risks before and after the restructuring;
2. business reasons for and the expected benefits to arise after the Business Restructuring, including the role of synergies; and
3. determination of the other options realistically available to the Related Parties or Connected Persons.

7.5.2.2. Accurate determination of transactions comprising the Business Restructuring

In order to determine whether, an arm's length compensation would be payable upon a restructuring within an MNE Group, it is important to identify the Controlled Transactions occurring between the restructured entity and one or more other members of the Group.


The accurate characterisation of the Controlled Transactions comprising the Business Restructuring requires performing a Functional Analysis to identify the economically significant activities and responsibilities undertaken, assets used or contributed, and risks assumed before and after the restructuring by the parties involved. Accordingly, the analysis focuses on what the parties actually do and the capabilities, as well as the type and nature of assets used or contributed by the parties in pre-restructuring and post-restructuring scenarios.

7.5.2.3. The business reasons for and the expected benefits following the Business Restructuring

The pressure of competition in a globalised economy, savings from economies of scale, the need for specialisation and the need to increase efficiency and lower costs have all been described as important factors in driving Business Restructuring.

Where expected synergies are put forward by a Taxable Person as an important business reason for a restructuring, it is expected that the Taxable Person will document, at the time the restructuring is decided upon or implemented, what these synergies are, and the assumptions on which these synergies are based. This type of documentation is likely to be produced at the Group level in support of the decision- making process.

Care should be taken to ensure that the Related Parties or Connected Persons contributing to the synergistic benefit after the restructuring are appropriately remunerated.

7.5.2.4. Determination of the other options realistically available to the Related Parties or Connected Persons

In applying the Arm's Length Principle, it is not sufficient that the Business Restructuring makes commercial sense for the Group in general. The arrangements must be at arm's length at the level of each individual Taxable Person. In this respect the rights, assets and expected benefits from the arrangements (i.e. any consideration of the post-Business Restructuring arrangement and, if applicable, any payments made for the Business Restructuring itself) should be considered. Persons acting at arm's length would generally only enter into a transaction if it does not make them worse off than their next best option. There are situations where the restructured parties would not have had a clear and more attractive option realistically available to them than to accept the conditions of the restructuring (for example, a contract termination with or without indemnification). Therefore, understanding the options realistically available to the Related Parties or Connected Persons is an important part of understanding the reason for the Business Restructuring from an arm's length perspective.


7.5.2.5. Reallocation of profit potential

Business Restructurings have an impact on the profit potential of a Person. The "profit potential" means "expected future profits", although in some cases it may encompass losses. The concept of "profit potential" is often used for valuation purposes, in determining the arm's length compensation for a transfer of intangibles or of a going concern, or in determining the arm's length indemnification for the termination or substantial renegotiation of existing arrangements.

In order to determine whether at arm's length conditions the restructuring itself would give rise to a form of compensation, it is essential to understand the restructuring, including the changes that have taken place, how they have affected the Functional Analysis of the Related Parties or Connected Persons, what the business reasons for and the anticipated benefits from the restructuring were, and what options would have been realistically available to the Related Parties or Connected Persons.

A third party would not necessarily have the right to receive compensation when a change in its business arrangements results in a reduction of its profit potential or expected future profits. The Arm's Length Principle does not require compensation for a mere decrease in the expectation of future profits.

7.5.3. Other considerations

7.5.3.1. Indemnification of the restructured Person

Indemnification means any type of compensation that may be paid for detriments suffered by the restructured entity, whether in the form of an up-front payment, of a sharing in restructuring costs, of lower (or higher) purchase (or sale) prices in the context of the post-restructuring operations, or of any other form.

Terminations or renegotiations of arrangements generally involve changes in the risk and functional profiles of the relevant parties, with consequences for the allocation of profit potential between them. In addition, the termination or renegotiation of contractual relationships in the context of a Business Restructuring might cause the restructured entity to suffer determinants such as restructuring costs (for example, write-off of assets, termination of employment contracts), re-conversion costs (for example, in order to adapt its existing operation to other customer needs), and/or a loss of profit potential. In these situations, the question arises as to whether, at arm's length, indemnification should be paid to the restructured entity, and if so, how much and calculated by what method.

As a starting point to determine whether indemnification for the termination or renegotiations of existing arrangements is appropriate, the legal arrangements need to be assessed (for example, are there termination clauses present / is there a


termination or notification period applicable). As a second step, it needs to be determined whether the legal arrangements include conditions that reflect arm's length circumstances.

Once the restructuring arrangements have been accurately determined and the options realistically available to the Persons have been assessed, the following aspects should be considered:
* whether commercial law supports rights to indemnification for the restructured Person under the facts of the case;
* whether the existence or absence of an indemnification clause or similar provisions under the terms of the arrangement, is arm's length; and
* the Person who should ultimately bear the costs related to the indemnification of the Person that suffers from the termination or renegotiation of the agreement.

To determine the indemnification upon a Business Restructuring the comparison of the pre-Business Restructuring and post-Business Restructuring functions performed, risks assumed, and assets used is essential to evaluate how the profit potential is impacted.

7.5.3.2. Valuations

In situations where reliable Comparable Uncontrolled Transactions for a transfer of one or more intangibles or in case of a Business Restructuring of a business (which could involve both tangible and Intangible assets) cannot be identified, it may be possible to use valuation techniques to estimate the arm's length price for the determined Controlled Transaction. It is important to carefully consider the assumptions and other motivations that support particular applications of valuation techniques.

Business Restructurings sometimes involve the transfer of a going concern (i.e. a functioning, economically integrated business unit). The transfer of a going concern in this context means the transfer of assets, bundled with the ability to perform certain functions and assume certain risks.

The valuation of a transfer of a going concern should reflect all the valuable elements that would be remunerated between independent parties in comparable circumstances.

The application of income-based valuation techniques, especially valuation techniques premised on the calculation of the discounted value of projected future income streams or cash flows derived from the exploitation of the business, intangible, or going concern being valued, may be particularly useful when properly applied.


Where valuation techniques are utilised in a Transfer Pricing analysis involving the transfer of intangibles or rights in intangibles, it is necessary to apply such techniques in line with international valuation standards and in a manner that is consistent with the Arm's Length Principle and the principles of this Guide.

Depending on the facts and circumstances of the individual case, there may be a situation where an agreeable range of values cannot be arrived at for the transfer of assets or going concerns, for example, because of differences in the buyer and seller's positions. This may be an indication that a termination payment is required or the possibility that the transaction should be disregarded.

It is not the intention of this Guide to set out a comprehensive summary of the valuation techniques used by valuation professionals or to endorse or reject one or more sets of valuation standards applied by valuation or accounting professionals or to describe in detail or specifically endorse one or more specific valuation techniques or methods as being especially suitable for use in a Transfer Pricing analysis.

Nonetheless, it is important to recognise that the value estimates based on valuation techniques can be volatile and rely on various assumptions. Due to the importance of the underlying assumptions and valuation parameters, Taxable Persons using valuation techniques should be explicit in the valuation parameters and assumptions and should substantiate the valuation techniques (including the reasonableness of such assumptions) when creating the valuation model. These concerns, amongst others, are important in evaluating the reliability of the particular application of a valuation technique.

7.5.3.3. Remuneration of post-restructuring Controlled Transactions

The Arm's Length Principle and this Guide do not apply differently to post-restructuring Controlled Transactions as opposed to transactions that were structured as such from the beginning. The Arm's Length Principle must be applied not only to the post- restructuring Controlled Transactions, but also to additional Controlled Transactions that comprise the Business Restructuring.

7.6. Permanent Establishment

7.6.1. Introduction

A Permanent Establishment (PE) has the meaning contained in Article 14 of the Corporate Tax Law. According to Article 24(4) of the Corporate Tax Law, when determining the income and associated expenditure of a PE, a Resident Person and each of its PEs should be treated as separate and independent entities. This approach is known as the "separate entity approach".


Taxable Persons may carry on business activity through a number of different options including PEs. The principles outlined in this Guide apply to Taxable Persons who carry on business activity through a PE. Therefore, transactions between Related Parties or Connected Persons where one of the parties is a PE would need to be conducted in line with the Arm's Length Principle.

7.6.2. The separate entity approach

In certain situations, a Non-Resident Person may perform activities which result in the creation of a PE in the UAE. Similarly, a Resident Person may conduct activities in another jurisdiction through a PE.

The FTA expects Taxable Persons to attribute the appropriate amount of profits and associated costs to PEs in accordance with the Arm's Length Principle. The Arm's Length Principle requires treating a PE as if it is a separate entity that operates independently from other parts of the Group and the parent to whom the PE belongs (i.e. a head office).

The separate entity approach is a hypothetical construct that distinguishes the functions, assets and risks of the PE from its parent entity and in doing so identifies the profits that the PE would have earned at arm's length in its dealings with other parts of the Group.

References to attributing "profits" should also be understood as applying equally to attributing losses. Additionally, profits may be attributed to a PE even though the enterprise as a whole has never made profits, and vice versa, the application of the separate entity approach may result in nil profits being attributed to the PE despite the fact that the head office may have made profits. In order to accurately attribute the profit between the PE and its parent, a two-step analysis is required:

Step one:

The first step involves conducting a Functional Analysis to identify the activities performed by the PE on one side, and the head office on the other side, treating each as separate to the other. This analysis should also take into account the assets used and the risks assumed by the PE. The Functional Analysis should lead to:
* attributing to the PE the rights and obligations arising from the dealings between the Head Office and separate persons;
* the identification of significant people functions relevant to the assets, and the attribution of economic ownership of assets to the PE. The "significant people functions" considers the key value creating functions performed by the people contracted by the PE. Part of the analysis should allocate risks, assets and rewards to the function and take into account the significant people function role as key decision makers with the ability to assume risks;


* the identification of other functions of the PE;
* the recognition and determination of the nature of those dealings between the PE and other parts of the same enterprise (i.e. the head office); and
* the attribution of capital based on the assets and risks attributed to the PE. Step two:
Determine the compensation of any transactions between the head office and the PE through:
* the determination of comparability between the dealings and uncontrolled transactions, established by applying this guide's comparability factors directly (characteristics of property or services, economic circumstances, and business strategies) or by analogy (Functional Analysis and contractual terms) in light of the particular factual circumstances of the PE; and
* selecting and applying by analogy to the guidance in this guide the most appropriate method to the circumstances of the case to arrive at an arm's length compensation for the dealings between the PE and the rest of the enterprise, taking into account the functions performed and the assets and risks attributed to the PE.

The FTA expects Taxable Persons will follow the above approach when attributing profits to PEs and that contemporaneous documentation supporting the application of the approach will be maintained and provided to the FTA upon request. This is expected to form part of the Transfer Pricing documentation prepared for each period.

In situations where an issue is not addressed within this guide, Taxable Persons are encouraged to refer to the 2010 report32 and the 2018 report33 on the attribution of profits to PEs issued by the OECD.


32 Available at: https://www.oecd.org/ctp/transfer-pricing/45689524.pdf
33 Available at: https://www.oecd.org/tax/transfer-pricing/additional-guidance-attribution-of-profits-to- permanent-establishments-BEPS-action-7.pdf


Company A pays a commission to the PE as a percentage of cost of purchases made on its behalf.

As mentioned earlier, to accurately attribute the profit between the PE and its head office, a two-step analysis is required:

Step One: The first step involves conducting a Functional Analysis to identify the activities performed by the PE on one side, and the head office on the other side, treating each as separate to the other. This analysis should also take into account the assets used and the risks assumed by the PE. The Functional Analysis shows that:

* A Co is performing the function of sale of goods to independent third-party customers in country X.
* The PE is performing procurement support.

Step two: Determining the compensation for the transactions and arrangements between A Co and its PE.

The attribution of profits should be done by applying the Arm's Length Principle on the transactions and arrangements between A Co and its PE in the UAE.

The appropriate attribution should be at the arm's length result that A Co would have had to pay if the transactions had been performed by an unrelated supplier performing similar functions in the UAE on behalf of A Co.

7.7. Group synergies34

Sometimes, MNE Groups and the Related Parties or Connected Persons that comprise such Groups may benefit from interactions or synergies amongst Group members that would not generally be available to independent parties in a similar circumstance. An example of these synergies may include combined purchasing power or economies of scale, combined and integrated computer and communication systems, integrated management, elimination of duplication, increased borrowing capacity, and numerous similar factors.

Such Group synergies are often favourable to the Group as a whole and therefore may heighten the aggregate profits earned by Group members, depending on whether expected cost savings are, in fact, realised, and on competitive conditions.


34 This section follows the guidance of section D.8 of Chapter 1 of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. Certain modifications have been made to suit the domestic requirements and views of the FTA.


In other circumstances, such synergies may be negative, as when the size and scope of corporate operations create bureaucratic barriers not faced by smaller operations, or when one portion of the business is forced to work with computer or communication systems that are not the most efficient for its business because of Group-wide standards established by the MNE Group.

Parties within an MNE Group should not be considered to receive an intra-group service or be required to make any payment when it obtains incidental benefits attributable solely to its being part of a larger MNE Group. In this context, the term incidental refers to benefits arising solely by virtue of Group affiliation and in the absence of deliberate concerted actions or transactions leading to that benefit. Such incidental synergistic benefits of Group membership need not be separately compensated or specifically allocated among members of the MNE Group.

In some circumstances, however, synergistic benefits and burdens of Group membership may arise because of deliberate concerted Group actions and may give an MNE Group a material, clearly identifiable structural advantage or disadvantage in the marketplace over market participants that are not part of an MNE Group and that are involved in comparable transactions. Whether such a structural advantage or disadvantage exists, what the nature and source of the synergistic benefit or burden may be, and whether the synergistic benefit or burden arises through deliberate concerted Group actions can only be determined through a thorough functional and comparability analysis.

For example, if a Group takes affirmative steps to centralise purchasing in a single Group company to take advantage of volume discounts, and that group company resells the items it purchases to other Group members, a deliberate concerted Group action occurs to take advantage of Group purchasing power.

Similarly, if a central purchasing manager at the parent company or regional management centre performs a service by negotiating a Group wide discount with a supplier on the condition of achieving minimum Group wide purchasing levels, and Group members then purchase from that supplier and obtain the discount, deliberate concerted Group action has occurred notwithstanding the absence of specific purchase and sale transactions among Group members. Where a supplier unilaterally offers one member of a Group a favourable price in the hope of attracting business from other Group members, however, no deliberate concerted Group action would have occurred.

Where corporate synergies arising from deliberate concerted Group actions do provide a member of an MNE Group with material advantages or burdens not typical of comparable independent companies, it is necessary to determine (i) the nature of the advantage or disadvantage, (ii) the amount of the benefit or detriment provided, and
(iii) how that benefit or detriment should be divided among members of the MNE


Group. Where a deliberate concerted effort results in a chargeable benefit, the Taxable Person should maintain supporting documentation to support the arm's length pricing.

If important Group synergies exist and can be attributed to deliberate concerted Group actions, the benefits of such synergies should generally be shared by members of the Group in proportion to their contribution to the creation of the synergy. For example, where members of the Group take deliberate concerted actions to consolidate purchasing activities to take advantage of economies of scale resulting from high volume purchasing, the benefits of those large scale purchasing synergies, if any exist after an appropriate reward to the party coordinating the purchasing activities, should typically be shared by the members of the Group in proportion to their purchase volumes.

Comparability adjustments may be warranted to account for Group synergies.

7.8. Other cases

7.8.1. Reliance on arm's length standard carried out by members of MNE Group

An MNE Group may have commercial dealings with Related Parties and Connected Persons in multiple countries, giving rise to various transactions and arrangements.

The MNE Group may have a Group-wide Transfer Pricing policy for common transactions and arrangements based on the arm's length standard for such transactions and arrangements.

Such a Transfer Pricing policy should be evaluated from the UAE context based on two parameters:
* whether the Taxable Person is carrying out similar transactions and arrangements with Related Parties and Connected Persons; and
* whether the arm's length result of the Group-wide Transfer Pricing policy takes into account local and/or regional comparables in order to meet the arm's length standard.

Even where the transactions and arrangements are similar in nature, there may be situations where local and/or regional comparables are not available to meet the arm's length standard. This can happen for example due to the non-availability, or delay in availability, of necessary financial information in the public domain. In such a case, it is expected that the Taxable Person shall maintain an audit trail to demonstrate this. If local and/or regional comparables are available but not considered, the Group-wide Transfer Pricing policy should be re-evaluated to consider such comparables and accordingly determine the arm's length standard. Alternatively, a Taxable Person


could independently determine arm's length standard on transactions and arrangements with Related Parties and Connected Persons.

7.8.2. Cash/bank settlement between Related Parties and Connected Persons

In the course of transactions and arrangements between Related Parties or Connected Persons, it is generally expected that any outstanding amount is consistently settled as per the internal policy of the MNE Group.

The Arm's Length Principle requires that there should be a reasonable mechanism and governance between Related Parties or Connected Persons on raising inter- company invoices and the time period for the settlement process. If the actual settlement period exceeds what the Related Parties or Connected Persons agree upon on a regular basis, the extended credit period could be regarded as an advancement of loan. As a result, a compensation in the form of a fee or interest could be charged. The reasoning is that Persons who were not Related Parties or Connected Persons would not engage in a similar transaction or arrangement where a receivable or payable is not settled on time without compensation, for example in the form of interest or penalties.

Example 24: Arm's length interest rate applied due to aging of receivables

Company X is the parent company of an MNE Group headquartered in the UAE. It has wholly owned subsidiaries in countries A and B.

Company X provides certain services to its subsidiary in country A for a Market Value of AED 10 million. Company X provides the same services to its subsidiary in country B for AED 5 million.

Company X has a group wide 90 days payment term policy on all transactions (independent as well as Related Parties) from the date of issuance of invoice.

Company X raises an invoice to both the subsidiaries. The subsidiary in country A settles within 90 days but the subsidiary in country B does not. It is subsequently observed that the outstanding invoice has aged for more than 400 days without any commercial or business rationale.

As per Article 34(2) of the Corporate Tax Law, a transaction or arrangement between Related Parties meets the arm's length standard if the results of the transaction or arrangement are consistent with the results that would have been realised if Persons who were not Related Parties had engaged in a similar transaction or arrangement under similar circumstances.





8. Transfer Pricing audit and risk assessment

8.1. Burden of Proof

Transfer Pricing documentation should allow the FTA to ascertain that the tax outcome of the Tax Period has been affected by Transfer Pricing practices that are not in line with the Arm's Length Principle.

The burden of proof falls on the Taxable Person to maintain sufficient supporting documentation as well as to make timely submissions to the FTA in order to support the position taken in the tax return as it relates to the Controlled Transactions that are in scope for each Tax Period.

The FTA has the right to make queries and request information and data for its review and to arrive at a conclusion regarding the Transfer Pricing practices of the Taxable Person.

8.2. Transfer Pricing adjustments

Transfer Pricing adjustments are designed to ensure that the taxable outcome of the Controlled Transaction is aligned with the Arm's Length Principle.

Transfer Pricing adjustments can be initiated by both Taxable Persons and the FTA in cases where it is believed that a transaction has not been conducted in an arm's length manner. Both scenarios are outlined below.

It is worth noting that the Transfer Pricing disclosure form is based on the self- assessment model and as such the burden will be on the Taxable Person to ensure that the transactions undertaken in the Fiscal year are aligned with the Arm's Length Principle.

Transfer Pricing adjustments by the FTA

According to Article 34 of the Corporate Tax Law, if the result of the Controlled Transaction does not fall within the arm's length range, the FTA shall adjust the Taxable Income contained within the Tax Return to achieve the arm's length result that best reflects the facts and circumstances of the transaction or arrangement. The FTA will also make available to the Taxable Person the information relied on to make the adjustment.

Where the FTA or a Taxable Person adjusts the Taxable Income for a transaction or arrangement to meet the arm's length standard, the FTA will reflect this adjustment in the Taxable Income of the local Related Party that is party to the relevant transaction or arrangement.



In accordance with Article 34(11) of the Corporate Tax Law, in cases where the application of the Arm's Length Principle results in an adjustment to the transfer price made by a foreign competent authority,35 the Taxable Person can request the FTA to make a corresponding adjustment to their Taxable Income under the applicable provisions of the relevant Double Taxation Agreement. The FTA will review the foreign tax authority's position and where appropriate may proceed with a corresponding adjustment.

Below are illustrative examples of domestic and cross-border corresponding adjustments:

Example 25: Cross-border corresponding adjustments

Company A, a UAE resident entity, sells finished goods to its local Related Party, Company X.

Company A has a Transfer Pricing policy in place whereby the goods are sold to its Related Party at cost plus 6% mark-up. The FTA assessed the Transfer Pricing policy applied in relation to the 'sale of goods' transaction and determined that an arm's length mark-up for similar transactions under similar conditions would be 8% on cost.

The FTA has accordingly adjusted the profitability of Company A as follows:

Company A accounts

Pre-adjustment	(Cost
plus 6%)
Post-adjustment	(Cost
plus 8%)
Revenue	from
Company X
5,300,000
5,400,000
Operating cost
5,000,000
5,000,000
Profit
300,0000
400,000

As a result of the above adjustment, Company A and Company X approached the FTA and requested a corresponding adjustment to limit the impact of the double taxation on the same income for the MNE Group. The FTA reviewed the appropriateness of the position and agreed to make a corresponding adjustment as follows:

Company X accounts

Pre-adjustment	(Cost
plus 6%)
Post-adjustment	(Cost
plus 8%)



35 Article 34(11) of the Corporate Tax Law.


Revenue	from	third
parties
6,500,000
6,500,000
Cost of finished goods
from Company A
5,300,000
5,400,000
Profit
1,200,000
1,100,000

Transfer Pricing adjustment by the Taxable Person

It is recommended that the Taxable Person constantly monitors the conduct of its Controlled Transaction(s) throughout a Tax Period to ensure that these are conducted in accordance with the Arm's Length Principle. The Taxable Person will have the option to seek clarifications on a point of law from the FTA.

As discussed above, the burden of proof is on the Taxable Person when preparing the Tax Return. As such, Taxable Persons should apply arm's length pricing in the first instance, but by continually monitoring the Controlled Transactions, Taxable Persons can make real time adjustments before submitting their Tax Returns.

After submitting their Tax Returns, Taxable Persons may make Transfer Pricing adjustments where these result in increased taxable profits or reduced allowable losses, or make adjustments that result in decreased taxable profits or greater allowable losses. A decrease in the taxable profits or increase in allowable losses may only be affected through the operation of the FTA procedures.

8.3. Non-recognition

Article 50 of the Corporate Tax Law allows the FTA to counteract or adjust transactions or arrangements that are not entered into or carried out for a valid commercial reason. If the main purpose of a transaction is to obtain a Corporate Tax advantage that is not consistent with the intention or purpose of the Corporate Tax Law, the FTA may take action to change the outcome of such transaction or arrangement.

Where the arrangements made in relation to the Controlled Transaction differ from those which would have been adopted by independent parties, the FTA may, if deemed appropriate, adjust or disregard the Controlled Transaction and replace it with an alternative transaction.

The key question in the analysis is whether the actual transaction possesses the commercial rationality of arrangements that would be agreed between independent parties under comparable economic circumstances, not whether the same transaction can be observed between independent parties. The failure to recognise a Controlled Transaction that possesses the commercial rationality of an arm's length arrangement is not an appropriate application of the Arm's Length Principle.


9. Updates and Amendments


Date of amendment
Amendments made
October 2023
* First version

























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































